i am sure if i had known well then you know now .
where did you address your letters then ?
i knew that you went out little and that your circle of friends was a very limited one .
it is fortunate for you will perhaps be able to post me up .
anybody bringing c that will do said holmes .
during that time i have lived happily at horsham and i had begun to hope that this curse had passed away from the family and that it had ended with the last generation .
but we can t all be .
a few seconds sufficed to satisfy him for he sprang to his feet again and put his glass in his pocket .
as i approached the house i saw a tall man in a scotch bonnet with a coat which was buttoned up to his chin waiting outside in the bright semicircle which was thrown from the fanlight .
the murder was done with it .
she came with an excellent character however and has always given me satisfaction .
they will be here in a moment .
who do you give your casting vote to ?
if not why should you come to consult me ?
he asked with his eyes open .
no he had not .
an inspection of his chair showed me that he had been in the habit of standing on it which of course would be necessary in order that he should reach the ventilator .
well you have to be in the office or at least in the building the whole time .
very good .
asked holmes with a start .
let me know your train .
now i ll state the case clearly and concisely to you watson and maybe you can see a spark where all is dark to me .
of her i could see nothing .
i often take advantage of the freedom which it gives .
you have compromised yourself seriously .
however i shall write two letters which should settle the matter .
you will remember that i remarked the other day just before we went into the very simple problem presented by miss mary sutherland that for strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination .
then i asked him who duncan ross was .
she was as bright as possible at least until after the ceremony .
it was awful to me to think of all those lords and ladies sitting round that and waiting for me to come back .
in the second one which i visited in northumberland avenue i learned by an inspection of the book that francis moulton an american gentleman had left only the day before and on looking over the entries against him i came upon the very items which i had seen in the duplicate bill .
frank here and i met in in mcquire s camp near the rockies where pa was working a claim .
it was found in the banks of the amoy river in southern china and is remarkable in having every characteristic of the carbuncle save that it is blue in shade instead of ruby red .
i am afraid the doctor won t allow it .
this hat has not been brushed for weeks .
i think that i have seen now all that there is to see holder said he i can serve you best by returning to my rooms .
from my position i could look over the case in the direction of the floor .
hum !
with my body in one and my legs upon another i had surrounded myself with a cloud of newspapers until at last saturated with the news of the day i tossed them all aside and lay listless watching the huge crest and monogram upon the envelope upon the table and wondering lazily who my friend s noble correspondent could be .
i am glad of all details remarked my friend whether they seem to you to be relevant or not .
i think that was the chain of events mr .
how can you tell that ?
at half wages in fact .
the smell of hot metal remained to assure us that the light was still there ready to flash out at a moment s notice .
i could think of nothing save that he was running a tunnel to some other building .
i have seldom heard him mention her under any other name .
well i have drawn my circle and i only wish i knew at what point upon it the folk that we are in search of are to be found .
i rose to go but holmes caught me by the wrist and pushed me back into my chair .
data !
there were a couple of brace of cold woodcock a pheasant a pâté de foie gras pie with a group of ancient and cobwebby bottles .
windibank !
rather than i should marry another woman there are no lengths to which she would not go none .
holmes walked over to his desk took out a little triangular piece of gold with three gems in it and threw it down upon the table .
you reasoned it out beautifully i exclaimed in unfeigned admiration .
but in avoiding the sensational i fear that you may have bordered on the trivial .
and you don t know his address ?
you know peterson the commissionaire ?
yes sir .
between the wharf and the bedroom window is a narrow strip which is dry at low tide but is covered at high tide with at least four and a half feet of water .
when my father took over the horsham property he at my request made a careful examination of the attic which had been always locked up .
there is some building going on there said holmes that is where we are going .
yet i could not shake off the vague feeling of dread which it left behind though the sensation grew less keen as the weeks passed and nothing happened to disturb the usual routine of our lives .
i ordered her to say nothing but to get a few things packed and my ulster ready .
as i passed out through the wicket gate however i found my acquaintance of the morning waiting in the shadow upon the other side .
suddenly however as i ran a deadly dizziness and sickness came over me .
it is entirely a question of barometric pressure .
if i lay on my face the weight would come upon my spine and i shuddered to think of that dreadful snap .
his lip had fallen his eyes were protruding his skin the colour of putty and he glared at the envelope which he still held in his trembling hand k .
we shall see .
certainly i answered .
that will just show you how fond he was of me holmes and the little things that he would think of .
if she does not love your majesty there is no reason why she should interfere with your majesty s plan .
i am sure we owe you an apology toller said holmes for you have certainly cleared up everything which puzzled us .
thank you .
born in .
in his singular character the dual nature alternately asserted itself and his extreme exactness and astuteness represented as i have often thought the reaction against the poetic and contemplative mood which occasionally predominated in him .
someone in the next room had lit a .
oh sir he cried can you tell me where it went to ?
the question was hardly out of my mouth and holmes had not yet opened his lips to reply when we heard a heavy footfall in the passage and a tap at the door .
watson i think you know jones of scotland yard ?
he was wild wayward and to speak the truth i could not trust him in the handling of large sums of money .
it had been hacked or torn right out from the roots .
your news of this morning however may open his lips .
i caught it and prying its bill open i thrust the stone down its throat as far as my finger could reach .
so far i was clear .
that was what the county coroner asked me at the inquiry .
he shouted struggling to break away from her .
it is clear from what that surly fellow said that there are others besides ourselves who are anxious about the matter and i should his remarks were suddenly cut short by a loud hubbub which broke out from the stall which we had just left .
i told my pal what i had done for he was a man that it was easy to tell a thing like that to .
the sun was shining very brightly and yet there was an exhilarating nip in the air which set an edge to a man s energy .
you will find an extra tumbler upon the sideboard and there are cigars in the box .
someone has loosed the dog .
you may go to any expense which you think necessary .
i had been lying in an angle of the hedge close by the high road and just a little lower down was a long building which proved upon my approaching it to be the very station at which i had arrived upon the previous night .
seeing that his passion was becoming ungovernable i left him and returned towards hatherley farm .
well watson we are i fancy nearing the end of our quest and the only point which remains to be determined is whether we should go on to this oakshott or whether we should reserve it for .
oh it is so dreadfully still in there !
asked the king hoarsely .
if i can be of any assistance either to you or to my friend here i shall be indeed happy .
or should you rather that i sent james off to bed ?
it laid an egg after it was dead the bonniest brightest little blue egg that ever was seen .
pray let us have it for all that .
he put less weight upon it .
why do you think that i lock this door ?
it is my belief watson founded upon my experience that the lowest and vilest alleys in london do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside .
as evening drew in the storm grew higher and louder and the wind cried and sobbed like a child in the chimney .
they always fill me with a certain horror .
it is very essential miss stoner said he that you should absolutely follow my advice in every respect .
the distinction is clear .
and now you must on no account lose another instant .
i should not ask it of you if i did not think you a quite exceptional woman .
indeed it seemed unnecessary to put so nice a there .
i was already a dying and a desperate man .
yes my stepfather .
madam said holmes cheerily .
i heard her voice downstairs but i knew that she could not ascend .
you will excuse my calling so late she began and then suddenly losing her she ran forward threw her arms about my wife s neck and sobbed upon her shoulder .
ballarat .
you can understand that this register and diary may implicate some of the first men in the south and that there may be many who will not sleep easy at night until it is recovered .
he was a lawyer .
eh ?
you d be as warm maybe if you were as pestered as i am .
in that case i shall continue my professional round .
i heard no more .
he had no occupation but was interested in several companies and went into town as a rule in the morning returning by the from cannon street every night .
and he is a man with a wooden leg ?
all right john we shall not need you .
the words were hardly out of his mouth before a man appeared at the door of the room a very fat and burly man with a heavy stick in his hand .
she has her freedom .
can you not find the advertisement mr .
we have a housekeeper now but she is old and foolish and i could easily get her out of the way .
i am so delighted that you have come she said earnestly .
what does her clever stepfather do then ?
those are the principal points about which i wished to be absolutely clear .
and into her which was the very room which i suspected .
oh said he his name was william morris .
i suppose that i am commuting a felony but it is just possible that i am saving a soul .
and the work ?
they put in the advertisement one rogue has the temporary office the other rogue incites the man to apply for it and together they manage to secure his absence every morning in the week .
i have three who have been with me a number of years and whose absolute reliability is quite above suspicion .
the lone star had arrived here last week .
i just made up my mind to run away and explain afterwards .
dark enough and sinister enough .
he has taken to his bed and willows says that he is a wreck and that his nervous system is shattered .
it is possible .
when i saw him that afternoon so enwrapped in the music at james s hall i felt that an evil time might be coming upon those whom he had set himself to hunt down .
we shall soon set matters right i have no doubt .
you are to station yourself close to that open window .
oh !
sherlock holmes sat up with a whistle .
there is one point which i should wish to determine .
you speak of danger .
both he and the lascar stoutly swore that no one else had been in the front room during the afternoon .
he never spoke of the softer passions save with a gibe and a sneer .
but i don t know why it should be tied .
i think that i shall have a whisky and soda and a cigar after all this .
i would not have missed it for worlds .
i think miss hunter that we had better go in without you .
about five seven in .
upon what point ?
therefore it is upon the logic rather than upon the crime that you should dwell .
you just read it for yourself sir .
i would send you a wire .
and the work ?
still of course i never dared to leave the room for an instant for i was not sure when he might come and the billet was such a good one and suited me so well that i would not risk the loss of it .
when i saw how many were waiting i would have given it up in despair but spaulding would not hear of it .
to the best of his belief the father was actually in sight at the time and the son was following him .
sometimes holmes would hurry on sometimes stop dead and once he made quite a little detour into the meadow .
let us have everything in its due order .
said holmes after a long silence .
the trees and wayside hedges were just throwing out their first green shoots and the air was full of the pleasant smell of the moist earth .
i could see that holmes was favourably impressed by the manner and speech of his new client .
however i must not sit gossiping here but must get these disreputable clothes off and return to my highly respectable self .
had he ever showed any signs of having taken opium ?
presently he came to himself once more very weary and .
oh no it is in the house .
i would do it again .
that is important .
at what time ?
but that is a mere detail .
my cabby drove fast .
after all i thought we are not injuring her .
no .
how could she a young and timid woman make her way into such a place and pluck her husband out from among the ruffians who surrounded him ?
the pressure of public opinion can do in the town what the law can not accomplish .
but you have read the evidence .
never .
now for breckinridge he continued buttoning up his coat as we came out into the frosty air .
i reached this one said my friend by sitting upon five pillows and consuming an ounce of shag .
air and scenery perfect .
it might be a lover it might be a husband .
i have as you know devoted some attention to this and written a little monograph on the ashes of different varieties of pipe cigar and cigarette tobacco .
suddenly with a plunge as of the swimmer who leaves the bank she hurried across the road and we heard the sharp clang of the bell .
oh yes holmes .
they are not very exacting after all .
the man who wrote it was presumably well to do i remarked endeavouring to imitate my companion s processes .
he rose as he spoke .
holmes sat up in his chair in considerable excitement .
if the lady loves her husband she does not love your majesty .
very retiring and gentlemanly he was .
holmes traced his way to the farther side of this and lay down once more upon his face with a little cry of satisfaction .
what would be the hours ?
yes her father brought her over for this last london season .
don t be frightened said my employer laughing at the start which i had given .
i took a few of my friends into the secret however and they suggested that we should quietly and secretly work our own little deposit and that in this way we should earn the money which would enable us to buy the neighbouring fields .
five attempts have been made .
anyhow he never got from a .
murmured holmes .
the goose holmes !
yes .
i have had diabetes for years .
it appeared to you to be a simple case to me it seems exceedingly complex .
i should feel so much stronger if i felt that you were at the back of me .
we had driven several miles and were beginning to get to the fringe of the belt of suburban villas when he shook himself shrugged his shoulders and lit up his pipe with the air of a man who has satisfied himself that he is acting for the best .
witness it conveyed no meaning to me .
this ground in front belongs to the house but the woods all round are part of lord southerton s preserves .
my sole duties then i asked are to take charge of a single child ?
i have no doubt that she has only been to the side gate to see someone but i think that it is hardly safe and should be stopped .
the note was undated and without either signature or address .
no doubt you will go to the prison to see james .
the only point which i could not quite understand was what use you could make of a hydraulic press in excavating fuller which as i understand is dug out like gravel from a pit .
bought .
i have heard of you before .
but he must be alive mr .
a case of identity my dear fellow said sherlock holmes as we sat on either side of the fire in his lodgings at baker street life is infinitely stranger than anything which the mind of man could invent .
inspector bradstreet b division gave evidence as to the arrest of horner who struggled frantically and protested his innocence in the strongest terms .
yes i saw it by the when i was stepping into the carriage .
ha !
this gentleman wilson has been my partner and helper in many of my most successful cases and i have no doubt that he will be of the utmost use to me in yours also .
how many ?
then he might have called to you ?
you shall leave it in the hands of the police !
then suddenly another sound became audible a very gentle soothing sound like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from a kettle .
i did so and saw a large e with a small g a p and a large g with a small t woven into the texture of the paper .
last week he hurled the local blacksmith over a parapet into a stream and it was only by paying over all the money which i could gather together that i was able to avert another public exposure .
what can be the matter then ?
here are your lodgings .
they must have done so .
i never noticed that before .
might i not escort her to this place ?
said he .
why it s a dummy said he .
we stepped as it were right out of the carriage and into the hall so that i failed to catch the most fleeting glance of the front of the house .
so frank took my and things and made a bundle of them so that i should not be traced and dropped them away somewhere where no one could find them .
i have already offered a reward of my god what shall i do !
then he took down from the rack the old and oily clay pipe which was to him as a counsellor and having lit it he leaned back in his chair with the thick blue spinning up from him and a look of infinite languor in his face .
it arrived upon christmas morning in company with a good fat goose which is i have no doubt roasting at this moment in front of peterson s fire .
but what is it you wish ?
the nobleman swung his glasses a little faster and stared down into the fire .
holmes and i rushed out and round the angle of the house with toller hurrying behind us .
i told you that i would call .
they were found floating near the margin by a .
i know that everything was turning round and the words of the clergyman were just like the buzz of a bee in my ear .
and very wet it seems to have made you said holmes laying his hand upon the arm of the .
yes sir for he had started to england just before it arrived .
you will be the ruin of us .
when lee laid down his arms my uncle returned to his plantation where he remained for three or four years .
yes and i confess that the contents startled me beyond measure .
the most serious point in the case is the disposition of the child .
the fish that you have tattooed immediately above your right wrist could only have been done in china .
they were all engaged for the evening .
which surely he restored to their owner ?
by jove !
you are yourself aware that you will soon have to answer for your deed at a higher court than the assizes .
even my dread of losing a client could not restrain me from showing my impatience .
now a pawnbroker s business is mostly done of an evening holmes especially thursday and friday evening which is just before so it would suit me very well to earn a little in the mornings .
said he i ve let them go at six hundred for the three !
i understand that it was your daughter who required my presence here and i am acting in her interests .
in ten days i had the money and had paid the debt .
what are they ?
to holmes as i could see by his eager face and peering eyes very many other things were to be read upon the trampled grass .
i confess that i still share my uncle s perplexity .
i assure you that i am in your hands .
i wish you were all at the devil together .
a lens and a forceps lying upon the seat of the chair suggested that the hat had been suspended in this manner for the purpose of examination .
i shall most certainly do so .
geese at .
miss hunter screamed and shrunk against the wall at the sight of him but sherlock holmes sprang forward and confronted him .
then suddenly he plunged forward wrung my hand and congratulated me warmly on my success .
you are looking for a situation miss ?
on the third day after the coming of the letter my father went from home to visit an old friend of his major freebody who is in command of one of the forts upon portsdown hill .
i must raise the money in some way and if you will not let me have it then i must try other means .
it was soon evident to me that he was now preparing for an sitting .
thank you for this information said he .
the small boy brought round a small thin volume and a great one laying them out together beneath the hanging lamp .
the telegram which we eventually received came late one night just as i was thinking of turning in and holmes was settling down to one of those chemical researches which he frequently indulged in when i would leave him stooping over a retort and a at night and find him in the same position when i came down to breakfast in the morning .
then when they talked of marrying within the week i began to ask about father but they both said never to mind about father but just to tell him afterwards and mother said she would make it all right with him .
the firm does so when the security is good .
above all try to let hosmer angel vanish from your memory as he has done from your life .
i begin to think watson said holmes that i make a mistake in explaining .
quite sure dad .
has he come with you ?
two days later this same performance was gone through under exactly similar circumstances .
where have you put it ?
my clothes were all sodden with dew and my was drenched with blood from my wounded thumb .
i never hope to see such a sight as that again holmes .
chance has put in our way a most singular and whimsical problem and its solution is its own reward .
how was it done ?
there was the huge famished brute its black muzzle buried in rucastle s throat while he writhed and screamed upon the ground .
i had had so many reasons to believe in my friend s subtle powers of reasoning and extraordinary energy in action that i felt that he must have some solid grounds for the assured and easy demeanour with which he treated the singular mystery which he had been called upon to fathom .
close at his heels came the colonel himself a man rather over the middle size but of an exceeding thinness .
what do you read ?
lestrade looked startled .
the ideal reasoner he remarked would when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it .
it goes to the housekeeper s room .
over the edge there peeped a boyish face which looked keenly about it and then with a hand on either side of the aperture drew itself and until one knee rested upon the edge .
there s of them which makes one for you and one for us and two dozen for the market .
everybody about here speaks of his kindness to him .
the game s up ryder said holmes quietly .
thank you said holmes i only wished to ask you how you would go from here to the strand .
because during the last few nights i have always about three in the morning heard a low clear whistle .
then for pity s sake tell me what was the cause of my sister s death .
let me have the date of the reception by your uncle of the letter and the date of his supposed suicide .
this account of you we have from all quarters received .
so said he smiling it was you then .
you are not averse to this trip watson ?
having once spotted my man it was easy to get corroboration .
ah !
but how on earth do you deduce that the gas is not laid on in his house ?
that is the letter which i have just received holmes and my mind is made up that i will accept it .
what do you think of such a commission as that ?
yet the matter was so delicate that i could not confide it to an agent without putting myself in his power .
are you a married man wilson ?
you have come in by train this morning i see .
i don t know him .
the speckled band !
i was young .
to take the first example to hand i very clearly perceive that in your bedroom the window is upon the side and yet i question whether lestrade would have noted even so a thing as that .
he was as the inspector had said extremely dirty but the grime which covered his face could not conceal its repulsive ugliness .
i may add that his whole debts at the present moment as far as we have been able to ascertain amount to while he has standing to his credit in the capital and counties bank .
well obviously it could not have been meant for the son .
what a time it seemed !
he cried .
a few moments later he was in our room still puffing still gesticulating but with so fixed a look of grief and despair in his eyes that our smiles were turned in an instant to horror and pity .
and underneath ?
and now you see the deadly urgency of this new case and why i urged young openshaw to caution .
said our new visitor taking a step forward and shaking his .
there only remains toller who might give the alarm .
yes the brought it up .
as he said what interest could anyone have in bringing me to the doors of the church and then leaving me ?
well there are some on the stall with the .
all right said jones with a stare and a snigger .
as regards your hair it is no doubt a pity especially as i could not help remarking its beauty during our short interview but i am afraid that i must remain firm upon this point and i only hope that the increased salary may recompense you for the loss .
forgery .
i will do nothing of the kind .
we must come back to that .
have you the chisel and the bags ?
the streaming umbrella which he held in his hand and his long shining waterproof told of the fierce weather through which he had come .
i have already learned all that is in the public prints nothing more .
oh let us lose not an instant in bringing help to this poor creature .
well i have been years in the force but this really takes the cake .
only that ?
i shall never see them again !
here is the first heading upon which i come .
i know him from the photograph .
however i threw all fears to the winds ate a hearty supper drove to paddington and started off having obeyed to the letter the injunction as to holding my tongue .
i should like to see him very much .
an enemy ?
with your permission miss stoner we shall now carry our researches into the inner apartment .
it was a curious way of managing it but really it would be difficult to suggest a better .
it was so small that a rat could hardly pass through .
of course there can be no doubt as to the nature of this gang .
by the way since you are interested in these little problems and since you are good enough to chronicle one or two of my trifling experiences you may be interested in this .
we are faddy people you know faddy but .
how could it be that if it had gone twelve miles over heavy roads ?
i did not know what to do .
i went and saw him .
i had heard of him before as being a man of evil reputation among women .
she was accustomed to use slang of the kind .
this fellow merryweather is a bank director and personally interested in the matter .
she could not have spoken to anyone when she was out for she had been in the company of the bridegroom .
october .
there has been no result .
in the cells .
precisely .
there said he putting a new upon the top of the pile .
his manner was not effusive .
black jack of ballarat was the name i went under and our party is still remembered in the colony as the ballarat gang .
your morning letters if i remember right were from a and a .
now we must make the best use of our time so kindly take us at once to the rooms which we are to examine .
an eley s no .
from east london .
i wonder i didn t drop .
ah yes he cried here s the end of a long light ladder against the eaves .
i have been at work upon it all day .
no sound came from within and at the silence holmes face clouded over .
i had let myself go and was hanging by the hands to the sill when his blow fell .
square too quite unusual boots !
sherlock holmes had not come back yet .
we can do nothing until seven o clock .
i shall set to work upon your case .
at least said i as we heard her quick firm steps descending the stairs she seems to be a young lady who is very well able to take care of herself .
now if you cared to apply wilson you would just walk in but perhaps it would hardly be worth your while to put yourself out of the way for the sake of a few hundred pounds .
i read suspicion there and annoyance but no jest .
well said our engineer ruefully as we took our seats to return once more to london it has been a pretty business for me !
it was a delicate point and it widened the field of my inquiry .
and i poured out some water from a caraffe .
a pair by the sound said he .
it was too far for me to go weak and ill as i was .
how is that ?
the cooee !
and leave your case unfinished ?
how can we have when i saw him with my own eyes with the coronet in his hands .
he had set the engine at work .
you have come up from the i see .
you must lock yourself up from him .
then he lit his pipe and leaning back in his chair he watched the blue as they chased each other up to the ceiling .
we shall then look thoroughly into the affair .
none .
my dear young lady !
it is the purest accident .
i only quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference .
for my part i should like all europe and america to hear the rights of it .
no my brougham is waiting .
it was early in april in the year that i woke one morning to find sherlock holmes standing fully dressed by the side of my bed .
having no mother she had no one to advise her at such a crisis .
what !
the shutters cut off the least ray of light and we waited in absolute darkness .
and you know where they are .
the first consideration is to remove the pressing danger which threatens you .
i asked with interest .
i started when i saw the name for it was that of none other than well perhaps even to you i had better say no more than that it was a name which is a household word all over the earth one of the highest noblest most exalted names in england .
well watson said holmes when our visitor had left us what do you make of it all ?
he thought no more of the matter until he heard in the evening of the tragedy that had occurred .
god help me !
and now you see i had narrowed the field down considerably .
i answer because i was well convinced that our troubles were in some way dependent upon an incident in my uncle s life and that the danger would be as pressing in one house as in another .
i cried .
yes i fancy we may have some company dropping in said he .
then i looked in upon your son told him that all was right and eventually got to my bed about two o clock after what i may call a really hard day s work .
to tell the truth he sank his face into his thin white hands i have felt helpless .
but the mystery ?
he put out his hand and coldly grasped that which she extended to him .
it is due at winchester at .
you seem to have done the thing very completely .
our visitor half rose from his chair in his excitement .
still of course one can t refuse a lady and such a very positive one too .
but with no very good result i remarked .
oh tut tut !
i took a step forward .
i am at my wit s end .
on entering the house however i examined as you remember the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens and i could at once see that someone had passed out .
as she swept silently into the room she impressed me with a greater sense of grief than the banker had done in the morning and it was the more striking in her as she was evidently a woman of strong character with immense capacity for .
i see .
he told me that a gipsy had done it for him when he was a lad .
he travels for westhouse marbank the great claret importers of fenchurch street .
let us now explore the parts which lie behind it .
and yet if it were on the lawn i wonder that you did not hear it also .
you are probably aware that fuller is a valuable product and that it is only found in one or two places in england ?
hosmer mr .
kindly tell us now all about your connection with hosmer angel .
i waited until midnight but there was no sign of his return so i retired to my room .
this incident gives zest to our investigation however and i only trust that our little friend will not suffer from her imprudence in allowing this brute to trace her .
and you have no doubt that it is your husband s hand madam ?
would the body be dressed in a coat alone ?
but there is a ring at the bell watson and as the clock makes it a few minutes after four i have no doubt that this will prove to be our noble client .
now he said as he turned hungrily on the simple fare that our landlady had provided i must discuss it while i eat for i have not much time .
hampshire .
and yet it would be the blackest treachery to holmes to draw back now from the part which he had intrusted to me .
they are a most unpleasant couple but fortunately i spend most of my time in the nursery and my own room which are next to each other in one corner of the building .
always .
in the bathroom he answered .
i am much mistaken if we do not hear from her before many days are past .
it seems to me that i have done you full justice in the matter i remarked with some coldness for i was repelled by the egotism which i had more than once observed to be a strong factor in my friend s singular character .
there was nothing else save the five dried pips .
cried sherlock holmes .
it came by the last post said he .
we guard our secret very jealously however and if it once became known that we had hydraulic engineers coming to our little house it would soon rouse inquiry and then if the facts came out it would be to any chance of getting these fields and carrying out our plans .
finally he walked over to the bed and spent some time in staring at it and in running his eye up and down the wall .
why he shrieked you re looking at the wrong side !
pray take a seat said holmes .
i was then much surprised and interested on glancing down to observe that though the boots which she was wearing were not unlike each other they were really odd ones the one having a slightly decorated and the other a plain one .
sherlock holmes sat moodily at one side of the fireplace his records of crime while i at the other was deep in one of clark russell s fine until the howl of the gale from without seemed to blend with the text and the splash of the rain to lengthen out into the long swash of the sea waves .
sherlock holmes and i surveyed this curt announcement and the rueful face behind it until the comical side of the affair so completely overtopped every other consideration that we both burst out into a roar of laughter .
a likely story !
our own door flew open and a lady clad in some stuff with a black veil entered the room .
holmes laughed .
the solemn merryweather perched himself upon a crate with a very injured expression upon his face while holmes fell upon his knees upon the floor and with the lantern and a magnifying lens began to examine minutely the cracks between the stones .
sit down in that armchair doctor and give us your best attention .
yes but you would not have me leave it a dishonoured man said he .
i thought of the fifty guineas and of how very useful they would be to me .
you took me in completely .
next day i was inclined to think that i had made a mistake and by the day after i was sure of it .
well i never !
yes that is clair s house .
sherlock holmes took a folded paper from his pocket and flattened it out on the table .
ah of course i forgot that .
stay where you are .
the second is to clear up the mystery and to punish the guilty parties .
in dress now for example .
well to my surprise and delight everything was as right as possible .
i saw her in conversation with her maid .
one morning at a little before seven o clock i was awakened by the maid tapping at the door to announce that two men had come from paddington and were waiting in the .
my friend tore it open and we all three read it together .
in fact in the whole of that floor there was no one to be found save a crippled wretch of hideous aspect who it seems made his home there .
we got into a cab together and away we drove to some lodgings he had taken in gordon square and that was my true wedding after all those years of waiting .
oh we shall soon clear up all that said bradstreet .
i used to be able to keep two assistants but now i only keep one and i would have a job to pay him but that he is willing to come for half wages so as to learn the business .
what you dig fuller in the house ?
it was damp marshy ground as is all that district and there were marks of many feet both upon the path and amid the short grass which bounded it on either side .
his footmarks had pressed right through the snow so long had he stood there .
i say it is .
they must be cunning devils he exclaimed at last .
a blow was struck and in an instant the lady who had stepped from her carriage was the centre of a little knot of flushed and struggling men who struck savagely at each other with their fists and sticks .
i had come to these conclusions before ever i had entered his room .
and now i have a very strange experience to tell you .
are you indeed now ?
you were yourself struck by the nature of the injury as recorded by the surgeon at the inquest .
a door which faced that which led into the quarters of the tollers opened into this suite but it was invariably locked .
the warning was no idle one for two nights later i happened to look out of my bedroom window about two o clock in the morning .
i am not a very heavy sleeper and the anxiety in my mind tended no doubt to make me even less so than usual .
there are several singular points about the case .
you knew that this man horner the plumber had been concerned in some such matter before and that suspicion would rest the more readily upon him .
what do you call purely nominal ?
for god s sake have mercy !
the house was just such as i had pictured it from sherlock holmes succinct description but the locality appeared to be less private than i expected .
he waved his hands .
my father had a small factory at coventry which he enlarged at the time of the invention of bicycling .
he brought up a card too with the name of colonel lysander stark engraved upon it .
away we went then and we drove for at least an hour .
i was determined that the law should have its way in everything .
well i followed you to your door and so made sure that i was really an object of interest to the celebrated sherlock holmes .
ha !
however in the morning i determined to have a look at it anyhow so i bought a penny bottle of ink and with a and seven sheets of foolscap paper i started off for pope s court .
try the settee said holmes relapsing into his armchair and putting his fingertips together as was his custom when in judicial moods .
lady simon then returned from the wedding in a less cheerful frame of mind than she had gone to it .
it is a noiseless lock said he .
pray proceed with your statement .
tell us the truth for there lies your only hope of safety .
it was a singular document .
he gasped .
i had forgotten the strange pets which the doctor affected .
you would certainly have been burned had you lived a few centuries ago .
it is very well to cringe and crawl now but you thought little enough of this poor horner in the dock for a crime of which he knew nothing .
then how many are there ?
at the church door however they separated he driving back to the temple and she to her own house .
he asked .
i have been far too generous with you in money matters .
it appears that some little trouble was caused by a woman whose name has not been ascertained who endeavoured to force her way into the house after the bridal party alleging that she had some claim upon lord simon .
on the inside of the flap he wrote s .
witness i should prefer not to answer .
asked this apparition .
you could not possibly have come at a better time my dear watson he said cordially .
he has a passion also for indian animals which are sent over to him by a correspondent and he has at this moment a cheetah and a baboon which wander freely over his grounds and are feared by the villagers almost as much as their master .
it has been a case of considerable interest he remarked returning to his natural manner .
he cried throwing his fat hands out into the air like a man who is in a boiling passion .
but she could not love him .
good heavens !
i feel that time is of value said he that is why i hastened here when the police inspector suggested that i should secure your .
he waved his hand turned on his heel and disappeared in an instant among the crowd .
your sister asked for it i suppose ?
who was he then and what was his object in deserting miss sutherland ?
she asked .
we have judged it best that you should come late .
but i must owe something .
oh to the other side of the west end .
i ll lock it up in my strong box now and drop a line to the countess to say that we have it .
that is a possible solution in fact as matters stand it is the most probable one .
and you can do nothing until then ?
then i saw him scribble on a piece of paper and i knew that he was writing me a note .
colonel stark went up to her whispered something in her ear and then pushing her back into the room from whence she had come he walked towards me again with the lamp in his hand .
he chuckled to himself and rubbed his long nervous hands together .
in the surgeon s deposition it was stated that the posterior third of the left parietal bone and the left half of the occipital bone had been shattered by a heavy blow from a blunt weapon .
i asked .
he is a cripple in the sense that he walks with a limp but in other respects he appears to be a powerful and man .
said the .
you may not be aware that i have royal blood in my veins .
he rushed fiercely forward and the inquirer flitted away into the darkness .
it is exceedingly unfortunate that you should be a bachelor .
it is a subject to which i have devoted some little attention .
i surprised you by beating upon the pavement with my stick .
she came to doran s door just after we returned and she endeavoured to push her way in uttering very abusive expressions towards my wife and even threatening her but i had foreseen the possibility of something of the sort and i had two police fellows there in private clothes who soon pushed her out again .
i caught a glimpse of rushing figures and a moment later the voice of holmes from within assuring them that it was a false alarm .
mrs .
mr .
there can be no question that it was your which when it was crushed in the press set fire to the wooden walls though no doubt they were too excited in the chase after you to observe it at the time .
it was about ten minutes before we regained our cab and drove back into ross holmes still carrying with him the stone which he had picked up in the wood .
then he turned to me tapped his forehead three times shook his head solemnly and hurried away .
he s a remarkable man is young john clay .
take your pistol and we will enter roylott s room .
we even traced them as far as reading but could get no farther for they had covered their traces in a way that showed that they were very old hands .
not in the least .
i shall call at ten if i do not inconvenience you .
nor running a chance of arrest ?
she showed me as i told you she would .
it is a little place near the borders of oxfordshire and within seven miles of reading .
but how will you look ?
he swung himself up onto the roof .
what a shrimp it is to be sure !
i fancy that my pal is all right though i see you have got his .
he drew a sovereign from his pocket and threw it down upon the slab turning away with the air of a man whose disgust is too deep for words .
i shall never let it drop until the gems are found never mary !
as to the photograph your client may rest in peace .
he has his own little methods which are if he won t mind my saying so just a little too theoretical and fantastic but he has the makings of a detective in him .
no good news ?
i was also aware of that murmured holmes settling himself down in his armchair and closing his eyes .
now i wonder who the deuce that could have been .
if you will be good enough to call afternoon at three o clock i should like to chat this little matter over with you .
he put his hand over part of the map .
clair had her lunch started for the city did some shopping proceeded to the company s office got her packet and found herself at exactly walking through swandam lane on her way back to the station .
more than that .
as far as i have heard it is impossible for me to say whether the present case is an instance of crime or not but the course of events is certainly among the most singular that i have ever listened to .
living in london quite so !
l homme c est rien l œuvre c est tout as gustave flaubert wrote to george sand .
but how was there a secret marriage ?
holmes refused to examine the third chamber so we passed at once to the second that in which miss stoner was now sleeping and in which her sister had met with her fate .
sherlock holmes was a man however who when he had an unsolved problem upon his mind would go for days and even for a week without rest turning it over rearranging his facts looking at it from every point of view until he had either fathomed it or convinced himself that his data were insufficient .
have you never said sherlock holmes bending forward and sinking his voice have you never heard of the ku klux klan ?
i was certainly surprised to find you there .
they have now fled together .
in search of the body of lady st .
my dear holmes said i this is too much .
it rested upon a heading which sent a chill to my heart .
i may have to go down to horsham after all .
he shall find me ready when he comes back .
you don t mind breaking the law ?
in another instant he stood at the side of the hole and was hauling after him a companion lithe and small like himself with a pale face and a shock of very red hair .
it may be so in this case also .
we went upstairs together the colonel first with the lamp the fat manager and i behind him .
the one unpleasant thing about the house which struck me at once was the appearance and conduct of the servants .
shortly after my return i heard the wheels of his trap in the yard and looking out of my window i saw him get out and walk rapidly out of the yard though i was not aware in which direction he was going .
it surprised me .
how did your mother take the matter ?
but i presume that this other goose upon the sideboard which is about the same weight and perfectly fresh will answer your purpose equally well ?
twice he was walking and once he ran swiftly so that the soles are deeply marked and the heels hardly visible .
i think watson that you are now standing in the presence of one of the most absolute fools in europe .
oh it is childish .
you must speak to her in the morning or i will if you prefer it .
i threw open the window reopening by my violence a small cut which i had inflicted upon myself in the bedroom that morning .
even after i became suspicious i found it hard to think evil of such a dear kind old clergyman .
yes i have one waiting .
when horner had been arrested it seemed to me that it would be best for me to get away with the stone at once for i did not know at what moment the police might not take it into their heads to search me and my room .
very likely not .
ah very well then that quite settles the matter .
even when she was just a baby her wee hand seemed to lead me down the right path as nothing else had ever done .
but cooee is a distinctly australian cry and one which is used between australians .
you see it is really confined to londoners and to grown men .
yes .
the ceremony which was performed at george s hanover square was a very quiet one no one being present save the father of the bride aloysius doran the duchess of balmoral lord backwater lord eustace and lady clara simon the younger brother and sister of the bridegroom and lady alicia whittington .
sherlock holmes was well known to the force and the two constables at the door saluted him .
consider what is involved by your theory .
he was the keeper of a low den in which i used to lodge in swandam lane where i could every morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform myself into a man about town .
i confess that the guilt of the banker s son appeared to me to be as obvious as it did to his unhappy father but still i had such faith in holmes judgment that i felt that there must be some grounds for hope as long as he was dissatisfied with the accepted explanation .
just look up the trains in bradshaw said he and turned back to his chemical studies .
it is to recompense you for any inconvenience that we are paying to you a young and unknown man a fee which would buy an opinion from the very heads of your profession .
you understand ?
not a bit doctor .
said he scratching his chin in some perplexity my theory certainly presents some difficulties .
had he appeared surprised at his own arrest or feigned indignation at it i should have looked upon it as highly suspicious because such surprise or anger would not be natural under the circumstances and yet might appear to be the best policy to a scheming man .
certainly madam .
lord simon shook his head .
there is no communication between them but they all open out into the same corridor .
however it was too late to alter the matter now so i locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my work .
when he was gone i unlocked my bureau made sure that my treasure was safe and locked it again .
and if it were guilty why did he not invent a lie ?
well every moment now is precious so if you feel equal to it we shall go down to scotland yard at once as a preliminary to starting for eyford .
there is a agency for governesses in the west end called westaway s and there i used to call about once a week in order to see whether anything had turned up which might suit me .
toller !
i am somewhat of a fowl fancier and i have seldom seen a better grown goose .
i answered that it had ceased to be a private matter but had become a public one since the ruined coronet was national property .
what do you think that this unfortunate lady died of then ?
the young lady came to london then and you renewed your acquaintance ?
he laughed very heartily with a high ringing note leaning back in his chair and shaking his sides .
if you can call upon me at my baker street rooms morning between nine and ten i shall be happy to do what i can to make it clearer .
i want to test a little theory of mine said he pulling on his boots .
did you ever see a bed fastened like that before ?
the total income which at the time of the wife s death was little short of is now through the fall in agricultural prices not more than each daughter can claim an income of in case of marriage .
but i m always ready to back my opinion on a matter of fowls and i have a fiver on it that the bird i ate is country bred .
there you are said he .
the circumstances are of great delicacy and every precaution has to be taken to quench what might grow to be an immense scandal and seriously compromise one of the reigning families of europe .
where is your father s place of business ?
sherlock holmes quick eye took in my occupation and he shook his head with a smile as he noticed my questioning glances .
now holder said holmes here is the corner which corresponds to that which has been so unfortunately lost .
ah !
i was mad insane .
here is where the party with the came and they have covered all tracks for six or eight feet round the body .
you then ryder threw himself down suddenly upon the rug and clutched at my companion s knees .
we got off paid our fare and the trap rattled back on its way to leatherhead .
there were six of us and we had a wild free life of it sticking up a station from time to time or stopping the wagons on the road to the diggings .
no i had a feeling something was there .
fowler was a very gentleman said toller serenely .
the larger crimes are apt to be the simpler for the bigger the crime the more obvious as a rule is the motive .
we had the carriage to ourselves save for an immense litter of papers which holmes had brought with him .
he cut a slice of beef from the joint upon the sideboard sandwiched it between two rounds of bread and thrusting this rude meal into his pocket he started off upon his expedition .
i tell you all those birds that went to the alpha were town bred .
she cried he has followed me then .
but we shall have horrors enough before the night is over for goodness sake let us have a quiet pipe and turn our minds for a few hours to something more cheerful .
my wants were few and simple so that in less than the time stated i was in a cab with my valise rattling away to paddington station .
will you not wait and breakfast ?
yes but only for you and me .
is the poor gentleman much hurt ?
it is the five miles of country which makes the danger .
then .
toller lets him loose every night and god help the trespasser whom he lays his fangs upon .
and mademoiselle s address ?
it was a small room with a huge ledger upon the table and a telephone projecting from the wall .
a flush sprang to the white cheeks of the stranger .
ah but i was recommended to you .
i do not know whether the spotted handkerchiefs which so many of them wear over their heads might have suggested the strange adjective which she used .
there is a fierce eddy between the wharf and the house .
no one but mccarthy was in favour of it .
he unwound the handkerchief and held out his hand .
that is quite cleared up now though indeed it was obvious from the first .
oh yes said he turning to me we are very much obliged to you miss hunter for falling in with our whims so far as to cut your hair .
yes .
i was just balancing whether i should run for it or whether i should perch behind her landau when a cab came through the street .
he advanced slowly into the room turning his head from left to right and swinging in his right hand the cord which held his golden eyeglasses .
you can see now that it is fastened to a hook just above where the little opening for the ventilator is .
i had as you know cut off my hair in london and i had placed it in a great coil at the bottom of my trunk .
old as is the idea however there were one or two details which were new to me .
this matter from what you say seems to have been a shock to her also .
thank you .
and what salary do you ask ?
yes sir .
every clue seems to slip through my fingers .
i walked round the corner saw the city and suburban bank abutted on our friend s premises and felt that i had solved my problem .
so accustomed was i to his invariable success that the very possibility of his failing had ceased to enter into my head .
it was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my business but he was not of a business turn .
oh i m in such trouble !
for the love of heaven !
in that way i didn t know much of what was going on outside and i was always glad of a bit of news .
singularity is almost invariably a clue .
they appear to have avoided the society of the neighbouring english families and to have led retired lives though both the mccarthys were fond of sport and were frequently seen at the of the neighbourhood .
it was a confession i ejaculated .
that sounded ominous .
what can it mean this relentless persecution ?
why what is it then ?
miss doran whose graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the westbury house festivities is an only child and it is currently reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six figures with expectancies for the future .
he dashed her to one side and rushing to the window cut at me with his heavy weapon .
the cases which come to light in the papers are as a rule bald enough and vulgar enough .
quite so .
and the rucastles go out ?
what then did peterson do ?
where does the thing come from ?
and here he comes if i am not mistaken to resolve all our doubts .
it s quite too funny .
it must be those wretched gipsies in the plantation .
from the time that i heard of the assistant having come for half wages it was obvious to me that he had some strong motive for securing the situation .
my sister and i you will recollect were twins and you know how subtle are the links which bind two souls which are so closely allied .
your majesty as i understand became entangled with this young person wrote her some compromising letters and is now desirous of getting those letters back .
but this maid alice as i understand deposes that she went to her room covered her bride s dress with a long ulster put on a bonnet and went out .
so it appears .
the smoke and shouting were enough to shake nerves of steel .
i did not know .
cried lestrade with some bitterness .
listen to this lost on the jeremiah hayling aged a hydraulic engineer .
i shall see you at horsham then ?
i had never seen my friend s face so grim or his brow so dark as it was when we turned from the scene of this investigation .
i had a friend once called maudsley who went to the bad and has just been serving his time in pentonville .
but i am all in the dark .
i will try .
one of the footmen declared that he had seen a lady leave the house thus apparelled but had refused to credit that it was his mistress believing her to be with the company .
you should have been a surgeon .
have you it here ?
the king took a heavy chamois leather bag from under his cloak and laid it on the table .
he tossed a crumpled letter across to me .
i already feel it closing in upon me .
was for the colonies in a late administration .
quite so .
well it is very ingenious said i laughing but since as you said just now there has been no crime committed and no harm done save the loss of a goose all this seems to be rather a waste of energy .
with the connivance and assistance of his wife he disguised himself covered those keen eyes with tinted glasses masked the face with a moustache and a pair of bushy whiskers sunk that clear voice into an insinuating whisper and doubly secure on account of the girl s short sight he appears as hosmer angel and keeps off other lovers by making love himself .
the grass was growing under it .
the window was open and she distinctly saw his face which she describes as being terribly agitated .
but if you have followed recent events so closely you must have read about lord simon and his wedding ?
dear me !
this fellow a lascar was well paid by me for his rooms so that i knew that my secret was safe in his possession .
holmes nodded his head .
as i was already in debt to my tradesmen the advance was a great convenience and yet there was something unnatural about the whole transaction which made me wish to know a little more before i quite committed myself .
indirectly it may be of value you know you have only to put it into words to gain the reputation of being excellent company for the remainder of your existence .
i regret that i have kept you waiting said i sitting down in my .
you may imagine holmes that to me destitute as i was such an offer seemed almost too good to be true .
and your father ?
two days ago some repairs were started in the west wing of the building and my bedroom wall has been pierced so that i have had to move into the chamber in which my sister died and to sleep in the very bed in which she slept .
none .
you see remarked holmes as we paced to and fro in front of the house this marriage rather simplifies matters .
i asked .
does it not strike you as a little singular that this mccarthy who appears to have had little of his own and to have been under such obligations to turner should still talk of marrying his son to turner s daughter who is presumably heiress to the estate and that in such a very cocksure manner as if it were merely a case of a proposal and all else would follow ?
are you sure that everything is fastened ?
spaulding he came down into the office just this day eight weeks with this very paper in his hand and he says i wish to the lord wilson that i was a man .
we are but preventing her from injuring another .
to the police ?
it was with his barmaid wife that he had spent the last three days in bristol and his father did not know where he was .
she was there in an instant and i caught a glimpse of it as she half drew it out .
it was clear to me at a glance that he was in the grip of some deadly and chronic disease .
at last when nothing else would do he went off to france upon the business of the firm but we went mother and i with hardy who used to be our foreman and it was there i met hosmer angel .
whatever were you doing with that bird jem ?
it was no wonder that no one was stirring .
why says he here s another vacancy on the league of the men .
such are the true facts of the death of grimesby roylott of stoke moran .
another lucy parr the second has only been in my service a few months .
it is only fair to them to say that .
i walked round it and examined it closely from every point of view but without noting anything else of interest .
yes sir .
it is perhaps as well that the facts should now come to light for i have reasons to know that there are widespread rumours as to the death of grimesby roylott which tend to make the matter even more terrible than the truth .
he is asleep said he .
now and then i hazarded some remark to break the monotony of the journey but the colonel answered only in monosyllables and the conversation soon flagged .
what is it then a fire ?
a girl of fourteen patience moran who is the daughter of the of the boscombe valley estate was in one of the woods picking flowers .
what do you make of that ?
all day the wind had screamed and the rain had beaten against the windows so that even here in the heart of great london we were forced to raise our minds for the instant from the routine of life and to recognise the presence of those great elemental forces which shriek at mankind through the bars of his civilisation like untamed beasts in a cage .
i ve had one or two little turns also with john clay and i agree with you that he is at the head of his profession .
i had an idea that he might and i took the liberty of bringing the tools with me .
but they listened to my story with a smile .
i travelled in my youth took to the stage and finally became a reporter on an evening paper in london .
i shall be happy to give you an opinion upon the subject in the course of a day or two .
i am immensely indebted to you .
the walls were of wood but the floor consisted of a large iron trough and when i came to examine it i could see a crust of metallic deposit all over it .
but there was no great difficulty in the first stage of my adventure .
thank you miss turner .
we must have a cab .
i think myself that it is a page from some private diary .
he sank his face onto his arms and began to sob in a high treble key .
it is conjectured that he may have been hurrying down to catch the last train from waterloo station and that in his haste and the extreme darkness he missed his path and walked over the edge of one of the small for river steamboats .
at the same time he remarked after a pause during which he had sat puffing at his long pipe and gazing down into the fire you can hardly be open to a charge of sensationalism for out of these cases which you have been so kind as to interest yourself in a fair proportion do not treat of crime in its legal sense at all .
never to return .
i think that those seven weeks represented the difference between the which brought the letter and the sailing vessel which brought the writer .
pending the alterations as i understand .
on the very first day that i was at the copper beeches rucastle took me to a small outhouse which stands near the kitchen door .
as i came down the stairs i saw mary herself at the side window of the hall which she closed and fastened as i approached .
i can never bring you to realise the importance of sleeves the suggestiveness of or the great issues that may hang from a .
lord simon shrugged his shoulders and raised his eyebrows .
perhaps it would have been better for both of us had i been sterner but i meant it for the best .
my evidence showed that the door had been fastened upon the inner side and the windows were blocked by shutters with broad iron bars which were secured every night .
public disgrace i might have faced although i am a man whose character has never yet borne a stain .
holmes dashed into the crowd to protect the lady but just as he reached her he gave a cry and dropped to the ground with the blood running freely down his face .
because he was handy and would come cheap .
on the issue of this question depended whether i should continue my work at briony lodge or turn my attention to the gentleman s chambers in the temple .
he ll crack a crib in scotland one week and be raising money to build an orphanage in cornwall the next .
in a man it is perhaps better first to take the knee of the trouser .
and in practice again i observe .
now do try to come and i shall meet you with the at winchester .
the pipe was still between his lips the smoke still curled upward and the room was full of a dense tobacco haze but nothing remained of the heap of shag which i had seen upon the previous night .
five little livid spots the marks of four fingers and a thumb were printed upon the white wrist .
but look at these lonely houses each in its own fields filled for the most part with poor ignorant folk who know little of the law .
same old platform .
a fortnight went by during which i frequently found my thoughts turning in her direction and wondering what strange of human experience this lonely woman had strayed into .
the money which my mother had left was enough for all our wants and there seemed to be no obstacle to our happiness .
a large and comfortable room had been placed at our disposal and i was quickly between the sheets for i was weary after my night of adventure .
a house on fire ?
and why ?
it appears that his arrest did not take place at once but after the return to hatherley farm .
it must be done at once .
i am not hysterical nor given to fainting .
they say that away down in the village and even in the distant parsonage that cry raised the sleepers from their beds .
no reference to the matter at all either in word or writing ?
impossible !
he often had a wild way of talking so that i thought little of what he said .
i asked when i had finished .
have the goodness also when you address me always to say sir and please .
this strange wild story seemed to have come to us from amid the mad elements blown in upon us like a sheet of in a gale and now to have been reabsorbed by them once more .
as i glanced at the box i noticed with a start that upon the lid was printed the treble k which i had read in the morning upon the envelope .
it was .
it was very nice and complimentary of you holmes answered .
i confess that i have been as blind as a mole but it is better to learn wisdom late than never to learn it at all .
there is a train at nine said i glancing over my bradshaw .
the lash however was curled upon itself and tied so as to make a loop of whipcord .
he said that you could solve anything .
it is very kind of you .
that is just my point .
well then of course i saw it all and i ran off as hard as my feet would carry me to this man breckinridge but he had sold the lot at once and not one word would he tell me as to where they had gone .
to carry the art however to its highest pitch it is necessary that the reasoner should be able to utilise all the facts which have come to his knowledge and this in itself implies as you will readily see a possession of all knowledge which even in these days of free education and encyclopædias is a somewhat rare accomplishment .
i am to be neutral ?
it is possible that i might have placed them upon record before but a promise of secrecy was made at the time from which i have only been freed during the last month by the untimely death of the lady to whom the pledge was given .
your niece knew nothing of such men .
he is a hard man she said and perhaps he hardly knows his own strength .
the fire was burning brightly and in the grate there was a mass of black fluffy ashes as of burned paper while the brass box stood open and empty beside it .
but the inspector was mistaken for those criminals were not destined to fall into the hands of justice .
it is not a common experience among employers in this age .
you will find it rather disconnected i fear and there may prove to be little relation between the different incidents of which i speak .
no distinctly professional .
i have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children .
then you don t think i ll see him again ?
tut !
i had formed my conclusions as to the case before our client came into the room .
there was no place about the hotel where it would be safe .
and no more words were needed .
one would think they were the only geese in the world to hear the fuss that is made over them .
very glad to see you .
i have known something of him before .
you will leave the papers here and remember the advice which i have given you .
my name sir but you have the advantage of me said my companion quietly .
well we talked it over and he had fixed it all up so nicely with a clergyman all ready in waiting that we just did it right there and then frank went off to seek his fortune and i went back to the next i heard of frank was that he was in montana and then he went prospecting in arizona and then i heard of him from new mexico .
and if you ever put your foot over that threshold again here in an instant the smile hardened into a grin of rage and he glared down at me with the face of a demon i ll throw you to the mastiff .
it grew worse as alice grew up for he soon saw i was more afraid of her knowing my past than of the police .
yes it was only put there a couple of years ago .
it had escaped my memory .
yes it is all we can do to make him wash his hands and his face is as black as a tinker s .
his frank acceptance of the situation marks him as either an innocent man or else as a man of considerable and firmness .
and which king ?
then let us do so .
on the hatherley side of the pool the woods grew very thick and there was a narrow belt of sodden grass twenty paces across between the edge of the trees and the reeds which lined the lake .
he disappeared so suddenly .
it was the same good friend whose warning i had so foolishly rejected .
they had driven him home a dozen times from and knew all about him .
it seems that a young lady has arrived in a considerable state of excitement who insists upon seeing me .
asked bradstreet as the train steamed off again on its way .
and what do you think they found in the pockets ?
the end may have been so i answered but the methods i hold to have been novel and of interest .
and you are sure that this is your husband s hand ?
father was a plumber in the tottenham court road and he left a tidy business behind him which mother carried on with hardy the foreman but when windibank came he made her sell the business for he was very superior being a traveller in wines .
i shall not keep you waiting an instant said he and vanished into the darkness .
from under this great panoply she peeped up in a nervous hesitating fashion at our windows while her body oscillated backward and forward and her fingers fidgeted with her glove buttons .
no no my girl the matter must be probed to the bottom .
we had however an aunt my mother s maiden sister miss honoria westphail who lives near harrow and we were occasionally allowed to pay short visits at this lady s house .
yes .
james and his father had many disagreements about me .
i noted in passing that she had written a note before leaving home but after being fully dressed .
then i made inquiries as to this mysterious assistant and found that i had to deal with one of the coolest and most daring criminals in london .
a heavily timbered park stretched up in a gentle slope thickening into a grove at the highest point .
i can not imagine .
certainly holmes .
your french gold ?
then it was that the lust of the chase would suddenly come upon him and that his brilliant reasoning power would rise to the level of intuition until those who were unacquainted with his methods would look askance at him as on a man whose knowledge was not that of other mortals .
rucastle s .
well really !
but how could you guess what the motive was ?
there was only one thing in it but i am sure that you would never guess what it was .
i saw the man too in the gloom .
he looked about him anxiously in the glare of the lamp and i could see that his face was pale and his eyes heavy like those of a man who is weighed down with some great anxiety .
it is perhaps the best possible solution .
asked sherlock holmes .
and now watson this is too serious for dawdling especially as the old man is aware that we are interesting ourselves in his affairs so if you are ready we shall call a cab and drive to waterloo .
do you think that this man horner is innocent ?
you can imagine from what i say that my poor sister julia and i had no great pleasure in our lives .
when i had made it clear to them i returned to the main chamber of the machine and took a good look at it to satisfy my own curiosity .
if the latter it was less likely .
lord simon said holmes rising and bowing .
a few yards off he stopped under a and laughed in the hearty noiseless fashion which was peculiar to him .
it is absolutely unique and its value can only be conjectured but the reward offered of is certainly not within a twentieth part of the market price .
it was a homely little room with a low ceiling and a gaping fireplace after the fashion of old .
angel was a cashier in an office in leadenhall street and what office ?
i thank your majesty .
it is terror .
cried miss hunter .
he was kind to her also in his bluff boisterous fashion and on the whole they seemed to be a happy couple .
i signed the paper as directed and the lawyer took it away with him .
there was a rush a clatter upon the stairs the bang of a door and the crisp rattle of running footfalls from the street .
and now i beg that you will lay before us everything that may help us in forming an opinion upon the matter .
yes sir .
i put my pistol to the head of the who was this very man mccarthy .
i am lost without my boswell .
i shall be busy this afternoon and shall probably return to london by the evening train .
he was pacing the room swiftly eagerly with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands clasped behind him .
the church of monica said i and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes .
miss stoner .
there was no maker s name but as holmes had remarked the initials h .
i saw that he was too hardened for any words of mine to influence him .
tell us what you can but stop when you are tired and keep up your strength with a little stimulant .
he took an orange from the cupboard and tearing it to pieces he squeezed out the pips upon the table .
six out and six back .
which key was used to open it ?
as we entered he made neither sound nor motion .
let the matter drop and say no more .
they have however allowed me a policeman who may remain in the house with me .
now for the eg .
on the contrary this is the right side .
it is possible however that i may have something better before very many minutes are over for this is one of my clients or i am much mistaken .
he s a brave fellow said a woman .
rucastle then i presume took to this system of imprisonment ?
he placed his finger in the centre of the circle .
but what was she to do ?
i don t know .
he calls attention and with reason to the discrepancy about his father having signalled to him before seeing him also to his refusal to give details of his conversation with his father and his singular account of his father s dying words .
now then mister said he with his head cocked and his arms akimbo what are you driving at ?
eglow eglonitz here we are egria .
but you are joking .
as i expected his reply was typewritten and revealed the same trivial but characteristic defects .
i looked through and was conscious of two glowing eyes and of a vague figure huddled up in the darkness .
yes .
simon .
at reading i had to change not only my carriage but my station .
i screamed you villain !
such was the dreadful end of my beloved sister .
so much for the said holmes thoughtfully tossing aside the paper .
i traced her !
i took it up and glanced at it .
indeed !
said holmes laughing as he threw himself down into his chair once more .
yes .
i cried this is a terrible injury .
sherlock holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug of his shoulders .
fine birds they were too .
she is even more affected than i .
these are daring men and though we shall take them at a disadvantage they may do us some harm unless we are careful .
light a cigar and let me expound .
i daresay that if i had put down in front of him that man would not have given me such complete information as was drawn from him by the idea that he was doing me on a wager .
we have boxed the compass among us .
then i shall certainly come .
and now i will make the thing clear to you it has been a long time in the acting but will not take me long to tell .
it was indeed a gigantic one and capable of exercising enormous pressure .
well when i called last week i was shown into the little office as usual but i found that miss stoper was not alone .
he opened the yellow envelope and then glancing at the message threw it across to me .
could i not snap the bond ?
it came here .
well there is the tower of the cathedral and we shall soon learn all that miss hunter has to tell .
i thought that if i told you the circumstances you would understand afterwards if i wanted your help .
lucy parr who had brought in the coffee had i am sure left the room but i can not swear that the door was closed .
said holmes sternly .
it was a perfect day with a bright sun and a few fleecy clouds in the heavens .
my dear holmes !
astonishment at the unexpected sight of you might cause him to throw up his hands ?
she was so frightened by their violence that she ran away and told her mother when she reached home that she had left the two mccarthys quarrelling near boscombe pool and that she was afraid that they were going to fight .
it is in a country in bohemia not far from carlsbad .
he was dressed in a sombre yet rich style in black shining hat neat brown gaiters and trousers .
come this way .
what can i do ?
there would be one to reading in less than an hour .
three gilt balls and a brown board with jabez wilson in white letters upon a corner house announced the place where our client carried on his business .
there was no truth holmes in the conjecture which seemed to us to be probable in your rooms at baker street .
rucastle let me out when he came back before he went up to you .
nothing was left save a few acres of ground and the house which is itself crushed under a heavy mortgage .
he was trying to utter the name of his murderer .
i have no time !
do you think that you could perform one more feat ?
the man s face peeled off under the sponge like the bark from a tree .
they are coiners on a large scale and have used the machine to form the amalgam which has taken the place of silver .
what on earth can be the matter with him ?
i can not say that i do unless it were that he wished to be able to deny his signature if an action for breach of promise were instituted .
as i grew richer i grew more ambitious took a house in the country and eventually married without anyone having a suspicion as to my real occupation .
his boots too might be told from their traces .
well we will take it as a working hypothesis for want of a better .
the stage lost a fine actor even as science lost an acute reasoner when he became a specialist in crime .
he asked .
k .
he walked swiftly round from one to the other pausing only at the large one which looked from the hall onto the stable lane .
supposing that this unhappy young man s story were absolutely true then what hellish thing what absolutely unforeseen and extraordinary calamity could have occurred between the time when he parted from his father and the moment when drawn back by his screams he rushed into the glade ?
my family itself is so small that it will not take me long to describe it .
his features were gravely set but there was a light in his eye which made me think that he had not been disappointed in his conclusions .
shouted another .
pray what is your own theory as to what took place ?
i have been too busy to think of food and i am likely to be busier still this evening .
precisely so .
it is always a joy to meet an american moulton for i am one of those who believe that the folly of a monarch and the blundering of a minister in years will not prevent our children from being some day citizens of the same country under a flag which shall be a quartering of the union jack with the stars and stripes .
i put on my hat and cloak went down to the office which is about half a mile from the house and then returned feeling very much easier .
there is no sign of any other weapon .
i have been beaten four times three times by men and once by a woman .
the banker wrung his hands .
well we shall see if the inside throws any light upon the matter .
mrs .
it is pleasant to me to observe watson that you have so far grasped this truth that in these little records of our cases which you have been good enough to draw up and i am bound to say occasionally to embellish you have given prominence not so much to the many causes célèbres and sensational trials in which i have figured but rather to those incidents which may have been trivial in themselves but which have given room for those faculties of deduction and of logical synthesis which i have made my special province .
why i have lost four pound a week .
and she will do it .
they talk of woman s instinct perhaps it was woman s instinct which gave me that feeling .
i had better put my hat on i suppose .
he included us all in a sweeping bow and stalked out of the room .
sherlock holmes laughed .
he conceives an idea more creditable to his head than to his heart .
i believe that she is capable of heroic and that anything dishonourable would be repugnant to her .
he hardly spoke a word the whole way out to the southern suburb but sat with his chin upon his breast and his hat drawn over his eyes sunk in the deepest thought .
you don t comply with the conditions if you budge from the office during that time .
it s only carlo my mastiff .
he had nothing on save only his trousers and shirt .
this has been done said i examining the wound by a very heavy and sharp instrument .
think of the deeds of hellish cruelty the hidden wickedness which may go on year in year out in such places and none the wiser .
we will talk about that .
where ?
yes they were peculiar boots .
finally he returned to the pawnbroker s and having thumped vigorously upon the pavement with his stick two or three times he went up to the door and knocked .
as to his dress it was careful to the verge of foppishness with high collar black white waistcoat yellow gloves shoes and gaiters .
violence of temper approaching to mania has been hereditary in the men of the family and in my stepfather s case it had i believe been intensified by his long residence in the tropics .
i had no time to think of it .
the question for us now to solve is the sequence of events leading from a rifled at one end to the crop of a goose in tottenham court road at the other .
he had nothing a few years ago .
it is peculiarly strong and stiff .
i found her to be a silent woman much younger than her husband not more than thirty i should think while he can hardly be less than .
oh i have my hand upon him .
rucastle survived but was always a broken man kept alive solely through the care of his devoted wife .
out of the window he must apparently have gone for no other exit could be discovered and the ominous bloodstains upon the sill gave little promise that he could save himself by swimming for the tide was at its very highest at the moment of the tragedy .
besides it is a useless expense for how could you possibly find this hosmer angel ?
so i think and so too thinks my little mary who has a woman s quick insight into character .
omne ignotum pro magnifico you know and my poor little reputation such as it is will suffer shipwreck if i am so candid .
he walked swiftly and in silence for some few minutes until we had turned down one of the quiet streets which lead towards the edgeware road .
the coroner what do you mean ?
she had married a man named oakshott and lived in brixton road where she fattened fowls for the market .
i have lost my honour my gems and my son in one night .
we shall soon see how he managed it .
there is a comfortable sofa .
you can not imagine how comical he was and i laughed until i was quite weary .
it is founded upon the observation of trifles .
mark that point .
no .
that white one with the barred tail right in the middle of the flock .
i did not breathe freely until i had taken it upstairs and locked it in the bureau of my .
she states that while she was there she saw at the border of the wood and close by the lake mccarthy and his son and that they appeared to be having a violent quarrel .
you have no further evidence i suppose than that which you have placed before us no suggestive detail which might help us ?
it makes you quite invaluable as a companion .
and a very good thing too !
the windows of the three rooms open out upon the lawn .
what will you do then ?
he wore rather baggy grey shepherd s check trousers a not black unbuttoned in the front and a drab waistcoat with a heavy brassy albert chain and a square pierced bit of metal dangling down as an ornament .
our client appeared to have taken fresh heart at the little glimpse of hope which had been presented to him and he even broke into a desultory chat with me over his business affairs .
i will soon make it clear to you said she and i d have done so before now if i could ha got out from the cellar .
i am in hopes that she does .
from their conversation i have gathered that they have been married about seven years that he was a widower and that his only child by the first wife was the daughter who has gone to philadelphia .
mother was all in his favour from the first and was even fonder of him than i was .
with a comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and strode off upon his way .
on the other hand a man should be at his very best and keenest for such nice work as that and i did not wish to do it when fagged by a long journey .
this is my secretary and manager said the colonel .
my face lengthened at this holmes for i thought that i was not to have the vacancy after all but after thinking it over for a few minutes he said that it would be all right .
at least said he you will not have me arrested at once .
missing it said on the morning of the fourteenth a gentleman named hosmer angel .
where then ?
have you never heard of the league of the men ?
these are very deep waters said he pray go on with your narrative .
i do not think that i have ever seen such deadly paleness in a woman s face .
i am about to be married .
i can quite understand your thinking so i said .
but it might have been a cry of surprise .
it is in the personal column of the morning post and dates as you see some weeks back a marriage has been arranged it says and will if rumour is correct very shortly take place between lord robert simon second son of the duke of balmoral and miss hatty doran the only daughter of aloysius doran .
from what you have told me i think that it is possible that graver issues hang from it than might at first sight appear .
i beg pardon .
flora was a dear little thing but exceedingly and devotedly attached to me .
nothing less would bring a man out on such a day and at such an hour .
i had no idea that he was in front of me .
if you can enjoy it in peace well and good !
you did it very nicely doctor he remarked .
it is unthinkable .
my life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence .
henry baker i believe said he rising from his armchair and greeting his visitor with the easy air of geniality which he could so readily assume .
a chair had been placed close to the central window with its back turned towards it .
very well sir .
you may walk to the cab and i shall be with you presently .
and the ring ?
then when you hear him retire for the night you must open the shutters of your window undo the hasp put your lamp there as a signal to us and then withdraw quietly with everything which you are likely to want into the room which you used to occupy .
but it is too heavy a task .
his silence appears to me to cut both ways .
a groan of disappointment came up from below and the folk all trooped away in different directions until there was not a to be seen except my own and that of the manager .
it is clear that toller knows more about this matter than anyone else .
he took a large sheet of paper from his pocket all covered with dates and names .
i asked keenly interested as i always was by my friend s incisive reasoning .
if you will have the goodness to touch the bell doctor we will begin another investigation in which also a bird will be the chief feature .
naturally it was to my interest to buy their land before they discovered its true value but unfortunately i had no capital by which i could do this .
yes ?
you must know that my grandfather had two sons my uncle elias and my father joseph .
this may account also for the obvious fact that his wife has ceased to love him .
he looked inside the envelope .
you do not mean bodies ?
very long and very severe were the equinoctial gales that year .
it is quite too transparent and it was a very bad compliment when you said that it was impossible for me to solve so simple a question .
let me see !
here we may take it that there is a love matter but that the maiden is not so much angry as perplexed or grieved .
seven !
the little man stood glancing from one to the other of us with eyes as one who is not sure whether he is on the verge of a windfall or of a catastrophe .
and where is it ?
but our doubts will very soon be solved for here unless i am much mistaken is the person in question .
the man sat huddled up in his chair with his head sunk upon his breast like one who is utterly crushed .
when in addition i see a chinese coin hanging from your the matter becomes even more simple .
she writhed as one who is in terrible pain and her limbs were dreadfully convulsed .
as you both locked your doors at night your rooms were unapproachable from that side .
give me a pencil and that slip of paper .
do not worry about my future for that is provided for and above all do not search for me for it will be fruitless labour and an to me .
that is a detail which i shall speedily supply .
i whispered did you see it ?
the of the hand type leaves a similar mark but only on the left arm and on the side of it farthest from the thumb instead of being right across the broadest part as this was .
hullo !
yet if the lady is correct in saying that the flooring and walls are sound and that the door window and chimney are impassable then her sister must have been undoubtedly alone when she met her mysterious end .
my name is sherlock holmes .
on the left ran a lane which led to the stables and was not itself within the grounds at all being a public though little used thoroughfare .
as i came in he gave quite a jump in his chair and turned quickly to miss stoper .
here is something interesting !
that was a week ago and from that time i have not sat again in the window nor have i worn the blue dress nor seen the man in the road .
my wife was on a visit to her mother s and for a few days i was a dweller once more in my old quarters at baker street .
then he offered to give us a chance of talking to lord simon alone and so we came right away round to his rooms at once .
but i would not have let the young man come to harm .
where then is my wife ?
he held up a piece of white cardboard about the size of a sheet of .
oct .
not social then ?
yes he continued glancing out of the window .
her violet eyes shining her lips parted a pink flush upon her cheeks all thought of her natural reserve lost in her overpowering excitement and concern .
it was a little past six when i arrived so i went first to have my wound dressed and then the doctor was kind enough to bring me along here .
then he passed his handkerchief over his brow set his lips tight and turned his face towards us .
i do .
no but i fancy that i may have deduced a little more .
i hope that i make it all plain ?
an elderly man with a red face and shaking limbs came staggering out at a side door .
i hope that i may be back in a few hours .
yes i promise .
a slow and heavy step which had been heard upon the stairs and in the passage paused immediately outside the door .
then he tried the various keys in the lock but without success .
there is as much sense in hafiz as in horace and as much knowledge of the world .
holmes i cried you are too late .
i hope we may clear him miss turner said sherlock holmes .
he must guard himself for he may find that there is someone more cunning than himself upon his track .
how could you know anything of the matter ?
now if you will have the great goodness to open that door very quietly we will soon make him cut a much more respectable figure .
it brings me twopence a sheet and i can often do from fifteen to twenty sheets in a day .
well i don t know why not said the inspector .
he shrieked and then my god my god my sins have overtaken me !
i ask you not merely because my friend watson has not heard the opening part but also because the peculiar nature of the story makes me anxious to have every possible detail from your lips .
there is however one of these last which was so remarkable in its details and so startling in its results that i am tempted to give some account of it in spite of the fact that there are points in connection with it which never have been and probably never will be entirely cleared up .
the whole party proceeded afterwards to the house of aloysius doran at lancaster gate where breakfast had been prepared .
sherlock holmes sat silent for some few minutes with his brows knitted and his eyes fixed upon the fire .
his height i know that you might roughly judge from the length of his stride .
as i turned to speak to her the brute broke loose and fluttered off among the others .
and yet you can not guard yourself too closely .
if the young lady has a brother or a friend he ought to lay a whip across your shoulders .
and who is this captain calhoun ?
cried the banker with an ashen face .
others were of a date during the reconstruction of the southern states and were mostly concerned with politics for he had evidently taken a strong part in opposing the politicians who had been sent down from the north .
she was never happy at home miss alice wasn t from the time that her father married again .
i can not tell .
and how did he make his money ?
but what harm can there be in that ?
the case is as plain as a pikestaff and the more one goes into it the plainer it becomes .
there was an old clock ticking loudly somewhere in the passage but otherwise everything was deadly still .
rucastle seemed to be a very kind man .
his tangled beard grizzled hair and outstanding drooping eyebrows combined to give an air of dignity and power to his appearance but his face was of an ashen white while his lips and the corners of his nostrils were tinged with a shade of blue .
in an instant his strange headgear began to move and there reared itself from among his hair the squat head and puffed neck of a loathsome serpent .
fairbank was a square house of white stone standing back a little from the road .
if they fire watson have no compunction about shooting them down .
no we don t keep a cat .
i wish you john said my uncle to witness my will .
i should be happy to advance it without further parley from my own private purse said i were it not that the strain would be rather more than it could bear .
but really i think that we are wandering rather far from the point .
to do this we must try the simplest means first and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the evening papers .
you have an answer to everything .
if you please miss stoper .
mccauley cleared .
i believe that it was an excuse to move me from my room .
well now in considering this case there are two points about young mccarthy s narrative which struck us both instantly although they impressed me in his favour and you against him .
but how ?
i was not and am not sure which but i knew that the ship must have an american origin .
it would be to your advantage as well as mine if i might leave the house for five minutes .
she is the daintiest thing under a bonnet on this planet .
you have formed some conclusion ?
no ?
my god !
holmes sat in his big armchair with the weary expression which veiled his keen and eager nature while i sat opposite to him and we listened in silence to the strange story which our visitor detailed to us .
hitherto his orgies had always been confined to one day and he had come back twitching and shattered in the evening .
he is still with you i presume ?
then let us hurry to him at once to let him know that the truth is known .
i determined therefore that for the next few days i would always carry the case backward and forward with me so that it might never be really out of my reach .
you may know the strict principles of her family .
i bowed feeling as flattered as any young man would at such an address .
you say that there was a gentleman in the pew .
he was still as ever deeply attracted by the study of crime and occupied his immense faculties and extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues and clearing up those mysteries which had been abandoned as hopeless by the official police .
what is the young man s own account of the matter ?
you fail however to reason from what you see .
peterson had rushed forward to protect the stranger from his assailants but the man shocked at having broken the window and seeing an person in uniform rushing towards him dropped his goose took to his heels and vanished amid the labyrinth of small streets which lie at the back of tottenham court road .
have you a family ?
you have made your statement very clearly .
the third on the right is his said the inspector .
i will keep your confession and if mccarthy is condemned i shall be forced to use it .
why should i attempt to conceal it ?
a fierce quarrel broke out which was increased by the two guardsmen who took sides with one of the loungers and by the who was equally hot upon the other side .
posted in gravesend by a man with a dirty thumb .
my whole examination served to turn my conjecture into a certainty .
i am afraid that i am still a sceptic he said .
the door itself was locked as well and the key was not there .
with a shriek of joy our client clutched it up .
i must compliment you .
we are now said he actually within the hydraulic press and it would be a particularly unpleasant thing for us if anyone were to turn it on .
but the writing ?
you may rely upon my doing all that i can .
besides she is not so very young .
holmes gazed long and earnestly at it .
well i thought over the matter all day and by evening i was in low spirits again for i had quite persuaded myself that the whole affair must be some great hoax or fraud though what its object might be i could not imagine .
the matter is a perfectly trivial one he jerked his thumb in the direction of the old hat but there are points in connection with it which are not entirely devoid of interest and even of instruction .
had he observed a carriage the night before waiting for me ?
but after all if he is satisfied why should i put ideas in his head ?
is purely nominal .
certainly not .
when i see you my dear watson with a week s accumulation of dust upon your hat and when your wife allows you to go out in such a state i shall fear that you also have been unfortunate enough to lose your wife s affection .
texas i think .
said he .
who are you then ?
he overdid it .
he slept on the premises .
as to reward my profession is its own reward but you are at liberty to defray whatever expenses i may be put to at the time which suits you best .
they are the devil s pet baits .
what did you do then ?
i ve been on his track for years and have never set eyes on him yet .
he was such a man that it was quite a pleasure to look at him .
both and rucastle expressed a delight at the look of it which seemed quite exaggerated in its vehemence .
i tell you that he is a clever and dangerous man .
as to my own little practice it seems to be degenerating into an agency for recovering lost lead pencils and giving advice to young ladies from .
i found my father expiring upon the ground with his head terribly injured .
yet i would rather die under my own roof than in a gaol .
perhaps i had better take a look at the lower windows before i go up .
theories are all very well but we have to deal with a british jury .
i am not quite so bulky but if he had remained i might have shown him that my grip was not much more feeble than his own .
i have thought sometimes that it was the disposition of her child which weighed upon her mind for i have never met so utterly spoiled and so a little creature .
i have sworn it by the most solemn oaths which a man can take .
what then ?
he !
it is as he said beautifully situated but it is not beautiful in itself for it is a large square block of a house whitewashed but all stained and streaked with damp and bad weather .
neville wrote those words .
it is said i .
she never came back .
but i hear the rumble of wheels .
from the lower part of the face he appeared to be a man of strong character with a thick hanging lip and a long straight chin suggestive of resolution pushed to the length of obstinacy .
he had trained it probably by the use of the milk which we saw to return to him when summoned .
may i ask who it was who gave me so good a character ?
paul s .
and is that all ?
the black swan is an inn of repute in the high street at no distance from the station and there we found the young lady waiting for us .
he opened the gladstone bag as he spoke and took out to my astonishment a very large .
both you and the coroner have been at some pains said he to single out the very strongest points in the young man s favour .
some ten or twelve but none which present any feature of interest .
very much so .
it is no time for me to hide anything .
putting his hands into his pockets he stretched out his legs in front of the fire and laughed heartily for some minutes .
what danger do you foresee ?
windibank did not wish us to go .
two attempts of the sort have already been made .
this was quite too good to lose watson .
i suppose said holmes that when windibank came back from france he was very annoyed at your having gone to the ball .
nearly eleven .
well then ask oakshott for it .
well yes of course the pay is good too good .
i read for about ten minutes beginning in the heart of a chapter and then suddenly in the middle of a sentence he ordered me to cease and to change my dress .
but you can understand said our strange visitor sitting down once more and passing his hand over his high white forehead you can understand that i am not accustomed to doing such business in my own person .
god help me i would not have them ashamed of their father .
you will find parallel cases if you consult my index in andover in and there was something of the sort at the hague last year .
the road topped a low hill and there was a great widespread whitewashed building in front of us spouting fire at every chink and window while in the garden in front three were vainly striving to keep the flames under .
i could even tell that they had been disturbed for the woman had run back swiftly to the door as was shown by the deep toe and light heel marks while had waited a little and then had gone away .
now my theory all along has been that lady simon was decoyed away by flora millar and that she with confederates no doubt was responsible for her disappearance .
murdered ?
he had hardly shut the door behind him when holmes rose to put on his overcoat .
the blow was struck from immediately behind and yet was upon the left side .
his son you see had grown up and so had my girl and as i was known to be in weak health it seemed a fine stroke to him that his lad should step into the whole property .
he was in the house about half an hour and i could catch glimpses of him in the windows of the pacing up and down talking excitedly and waving his arms .
glass sherry .
so much for the servants .
what has she been saying to you ?
its finder has carried it off therefore to fulfil the ultimate destiny of a goose while i continue to retain the hat of the unknown gentleman who lost his christmas dinner .
as he spoke the man puffing and blowing rushed at our door and pulled at our bell until the whole house resounded with the clanging .
i really don t know what to say .
the banker s was a plainly furnished little chamber with a grey carpet a large bureau and a long mirror .
a brown chest of drawers stood in one corner a narrow bed in another and a on the side of the window .
she asked .
it was a wild night .
so now !
it is not an english paper at all .
all these i may sketch out at some future date but none of them present such singular features as the strange train of circumstances which i have now taken up my pen to describe .
boots had then run down the lane and another little smudge of blood showed that it was he who had been hurt .
it would break her heart it will break her heart when she hears that i am arrested .
if he is violent we shall take you away to your aunt s at harrow .
you have been cruelly used said holmes .
this case i presume contains the coronet .
when did you first meet miss hatty doran ?
as a rule said holmes the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be .
this is my point .
there are several other indications but these may be enough to aid us in our search .
it is quite certain that he knows nothing whatever about the matter .
kindly turn round and motion to him to go away .
she listened for an instant threw up her hands with a despairing gesture and vanished as suddenly and as noiselessly as she had come .
let me see it .
as far as the church door he brought her and then as he could go no farther he conveniently vanished away by the old trick of stepping in at one door of a and out at the other .
saturday would suit them better than any other day as it would give them two days for their escape .
that is easily got .
you have given me fresh life and hope .
sherlock holmes seemed to be embarrassed by the question .
my overstrung nerves failed me suddenly and i turned and ran ran as though some dreadful hand were behind me clutching at the skirt of my dress .
that was it said holmes nodding approvingly i have no doubt of it .
then come .
i could see by his manner that he had stronger reasons for satisfaction than his words alone would imply .
its owner is unknown .
i promise said holmes .
how long i remained unconscious i can not tell .
and yet what could have happened ?
have you dragged the basin of trafalgar square fountain ?
the landlady informed me that he had left the house shortly after eight o clock in the morning .
the roadway was blocked with the immense stream of commerce flowing in a double tide inward and outward while the footpaths were black with the hurrying swarm of pedestrians .
as i stood in the passage gazing at the sinister door and wondering what secret it might veil i suddenly heard the sound of steps within the room and saw a shadow pass backward and forward against the little slit of dim light which shone out from under the door .
from india !
i invited them to meet him here and as you see i made him keep the appointment .
never mind .
every good stone is .
that trick of staining the fishes scales of a delicate pink is quite peculiar to china .
i could tell you tales of cobbler s wax which would disgust you with human nature .
he was plainly but neatly dressed and his age i should judge would be nearer forty than thirty .
there was a movement and an exclamation from my right and peering through the gloom i saw whitney pale haggard and unkempt staring out at me .
he and a girl of fourteen who does a bit of simple cooking and keeps the place clean that s all i have in the house for i am a widower and never had any family .
we should have acted before this .
pray continue your narrative .
who would have ever believed it ?
he was always well dressed very neat and plain but his eyes were weak just as mine are and he wore tinted glasses against the glare .
i have come for advice .
it is locked up i answered .
i asks .
how very impertinent !
bradstreet had spread an ordnance map of the county out upon the seat and was busy with his compasses drawing a circle with eyford for its centre .
of course there is only one feasible explanation .
i could see a change in my uncle however .
yes there were several little changes carried out about that time .
come !
nothing but energy can save you .
i do not encourage visitors .
said he where s your daughter ?
there is ever a flaw however in the best laid of human plans and the murderers of john openshaw were never to receive the orange pips which would show them that another as cunning and as resolute as themselves was upon their track .
what was that ?
certainly if you wish it .
i have no doubt that in spite of the repairs you could manage there for one night .
the rooms were carefully examined and results all pointed to an abominable crime .
it is said that turner of the hall is so ill that his life is despaired of .
he opened the case and there imbedded in soft velvet lay the magnificent piece of jewellery which he had named .
the ejaculation had been drawn from my companion by the fact that our door had been suddenly dashed open and that a huge man had framed himself in the aperture .
it is well thought of !
about sunset however their efforts were at last successful and they subdued the flames but not before the roof had fallen in and the whole place been reduced to such absolute ruin that save some twisted cylinders and iron piping not a trace remained of the machinery which had cost our unfortunate acquaintance so dearly .
i whispered what on earth are you doing in this den ?
there was a little shed in the yard and behind this i drove one of the birds a fine big one white with a barred tail .
witness i must still refuse .
peculiar that is the very word said holmes .
well he is sure to keep an eye on the papers since to a poor man the loss was a heavy one .
well miss hunter if your mind is made up that settles the question said holmes smiling .
holmes and i had listened spellbound to this extraordinary story .
it must have bled considerably .
certainly .
just before nine o clock sherlock holmes stepped briskly into the room .
it was only after a painful and prolonged scene that she was ejected by the butler and the footman .
near lee in kent .
well it was the beginning of when my father came to live at horsham and all went as well as possible with us until the january of .
thank you .
i had no difficulty in getting leave to come into winchester this morning but i must be back before three o clock for and rucastle are going on a visit and will be away all the evening so that i must look after the child .
he asked .
would you mind reading me the advertised description of hosmer angel ?
for a minute or more the hand with its writhing fingers protruded out of the floor .
what then ?
sherlock holmes ran her over with one of his quick glances .
you can not think how caressing and soothing his manner was and what has frightened you my dear young lady ?
the instant that we heard it holmes sprang from the bed struck a match and lashed furiously with his cane at the .
local aid is always either worthless or else biassed .
he appeared to be in a great hurry shouted to the cabman to wait and brushed past the maid who opened the door with the air of a man who was thoroughly at home .
asked holmes .
said he .
there the matter stands at present and the questions which have to be solved what neville clair was doing in the opium den what happened to him when there where is he now and what hugh boone had to do with his disappearance are all as far from a solution as ever .
the devil knows best what he said but at least she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every evening .
which is it you want then ?
it was difficult to realise as we looked at the line of fine shops and stately business premises that they really abutted on the other side upon the faded and stagnant square which we had just quitted .
great heavens !
a confidential servant ?
said holmes .
it is to that remark that she refers in this note my dearest uncle i feel that i have brought trouble upon you and that if i had acted differently this terrible misfortune might never have occurred .
by the way said i you seem to have quite a suite of spare rooms up there and one of them has the shutters up .
you have made two blunders in as many minutes .
you will find it laid out upon the bed in your room and if you would be so good as to put it on we should both be extremely obliged .
finally he took the in his hand and gave it a brisk tug .
in this way you see ceases to be the initials of an individual and becomes the badge of a society .
she could trust her own guardianship but she could not tell what indirect or political influence might be brought to bear upon a business man .
vincent spaulding seemed to know so much about it that i thought he might prove useful so i just ordered him to put up the shutters for the day and to come right away with me .
when the inspector and a constable entered the house arthur who had stood sullenly with his arms folded asked me whether it was my intention to charge him with theft .
why you are like a magician said she .
he would get quite mad if i wanted so much as to join a treat .
yes sir .
then i could produce your confession at the last extremity to save young mccarthy .
he saw her stealthily open the window hand out the coronet to someone in the gloom and then closing it once more hurry back to her room passing quite close to where he stood hid behind the curtain .
it lay between that and her bedroom and i was determined to see which .
she had small round hanging gold earrings and a general air of being fairly in a vulgar comfortable way .
might i beg that you will break it off .
you said that you wished to see me here to avoid scandal .
my god !
i perceive that all is as it should be .
b .
have your pistol ready in case we should need it .
will you go ?
yes but i do not think that it is such a very unusual thing to have a small opening between two rooms .
well really when i consider that she has turned her back i will not say upon me but upon so much that many have aspired to without success i can hardly explain it in any other fashion .
a dull wrack was drifting slowly across the sky and a star or two twinkled dimly here and there through the rifts of the clouds .
i ran to her and threw my arms round her but at that moment her knees seemed to give way and she fell to the ground .
at present it is not too much to say that it is of such weight it may have an influence upon european history .
i think that the change would do you good and you are always so interested in sherlock holmes cases .
gasped hatherley .
while she was walking in this way down swandam lane she suddenly heard an ejaculation or cry and was struck cold to see her husband looking down at her and as it seemed to her beckoning to her from a window .
ha !
i was already deeply interested in his inquiry for though it was surrounded by none of the grim and strange features which were associated with the two crimes which i have already recorded still the nature of the case and the exalted station of his client gave it a character of its own .
is it possible ?
if your majesty would condescend to state your case he remarked i should be better able to advise you .
asked holmes yawning .
the coroner what was the point upon which you and your father had this final quarrel ?
at the farther end was a small brazier of burning charcoal beside which on a wooden stool there sat a tall thin old man with his jaw resting upon his two fists and his elbows upon his knees staring into the fire .
now i am left to a lonely and dishonoured age .
which were very well justified observed holmes .
sherlock holmes sat for some time in silence with his head sunk forward and his eyes bent upon the red glow of the fire .
on the very day that i saw him last he cut himself in the bedroom and yet i in the rushed upstairs instantly with the utmost certainty that something had happened .
yes thief !
all over the countryside away to the rolling hills around aldershot the little red and grey roofs of the peeped out from amid the light green of the new foliage .
the walls were carefully sounded and were shown to be quite solid all round and the flooring was also thoroughly examined with the same result .
i warn you that they are very incomplete .
i could see at a glance that she was sick with fear and the sight sent a chill to my own heart .
it seemed funny that i should ask his leave as he was only a few years older than me but i didn t want to do anything on the sly so i wrote to father at bordeaux where the company has its french offices but the letter came back to me on the very morning of the wedding .
owe !
a thing like a cleaver said he .
it is obvious .
there has been some villainy here said holmes this beauty has guessed miss hunter s intentions and has carried his victim off .
i call him father though it sounds funny too for he is only five years and two months older than myself .
i found her more interesting than her little problem which by the way is rather a trite one .
i think that that bit of news has consoled young mccarthy for all that he has suffered .
he was a devil incarnate .
i keep it only to safeguard myself and to preserve a weapon which will always secure me from any steps which he might take in the future .
perhaps because he was so angry that you should suspect him .
we made our way downstairs as quietly as possible and out into the bright morning sunshine .
and why ?
at the foot of the stairs however she met this lascar scoundrel of whom i have spoken who thrust her back and aided by a dane who acts as assistant there pushed her out into the street .
it is the morning chronicle of april just two months ago .
then it was withdrawn as suddenly as it appeared and all was dark again save the single lurid spark which marked a chink between the stones .
i think watson that it would be as well for you to have your pistol ready .
i lent the ostlers a hand in rubbing down their horses and received in exchange twopence a glass of two fills of shag tobacco and as much information as i could desire about miss adler to say nothing of half a dozen other people in the neighbourhood in whom i was not in the least interested but whose biographies i was compelled to listen to .
even a wife s eyes could not pierce so complete a disguise .
ah !
i had been warned against you months ago .
i met him that night and he called next day to ask if we had got home all safe and after that we met him that is to say holmes i met him twice for walks but after that father came back again and hosmer angel could not come to the house any more .
he asked in a quavering voice .
is he quiet ?
surely it would not be difficult to find out .
then put on your hat and come .
we both put our eyes to the grating .
good heavens !
you were travelling in the states ?
what can you not understand ?
he s years of age which is mature for marriage .
they still live with their old servants who probably know so much of rucastle s past life that he finds it difficult to part from them .
he had foresight but has less now than formerly pointing to a moral retrogression which when taken with the decline of his fortunes seems to indicate some evil influence probably drink at work upon him .
however i was in time for the last train to eyford and i reached the little station after eleven o clock .
i thought of the salt that i have been working upon .
then we can hardly get there before midnight .
wilson ?
i glanced at him again and he seemed to know what i was thinking for he raised his finger to his lips to tell me to be still .
i observe that there is a good deal of german music on the programme which is rather more to my taste than italian or french .
well would you please sir march upstairs where we can get a cab to carry your highness to the ?
he entered with a weariness and lethargy which was even more painful than his violence of the morning before and he dropped heavily into the armchair which i pushed forward for him .
you must not interfere come what may .
crime is common .
john horner a plumber was accused of having abstracted it from the lady s .
heavy bands of astrakhan were slashed across the sleeves and fronts of his coat while the deep blue cloak which was thrown over his shoulders was lined with silk and secured at the neck with a brooch which consisted of a single flaming beryl .
you will not go there first ?
in victoria !
through the skylight .
sherlock holmes had opened his mouth to reply when the door flew open and peterson the commissionaire rushed into the apartment with flushed cheeks and the face of a man who is dazed with astonishment .
oh no sir .
sweating rank sweating !
it was clamped to the floor .
whose house is it ?
baker ?
in life or in death i am ever your loving mary .
hum !
from that appointment he never came back alive .
i promised her on my word that i would send him home in a cab within two hours if he were indeed at the address which she had given me .
very good lestrade said holmes laughing .
entirely .
ah i have no data .
then here are the father s feet as he paced up and down .
i settled myself down in the corner of the carriage and read it very carefully .
i ejaculated .
i am not of heart but i call it cruel .
there was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society papers of the same week .
said he .
well then you ve lost your fiver for it s town bred snapped the salesman .
beyond the obvious facts that he has at some time done manual labour that he takes snuff that he is a freemason that he has been in china and that he has done a considerable amount of writing lately i can deduce nothing else .
i think that i may arrive at my facts most directly by questioning you .
not i .
i can not imagine .
the dress which i found waiting for me was of a peculiar shade of blue .
until after the alarm of fire i had not a suspicion .
.
and god help you in your undertaking .
this is all quite beside the question .
you may advise me how to walk amid the dangers which encompass me .
your husband as far as you could see had his ordinary clothes on ?
there are one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest and which are worth considering .
yes .
such paper could not be bought under half a crown a packet .
before he knew that his son had returned .
it was close upon four before the door opened and a groom and with an inflamed face and disreputable clothes walked into the room .
so much so i remarked that of the last six cases which i have added to my notes three have been entirely free of any legal crime .
it is ten now .
he was at work again .
and you may expect us early in the afternoon .
the coroner i am afraid that i must press it .
you can pass through the door no one hinders .
mother said he was quite right to make me swear and that it was a sign of his passion .
now how can that be unless it were by a man ?
to you miss hunter .
you ve heard about me holmes she cried else how could you know all that ?
holmes cut the cord and removed the transverse bar .
we have at least an hour before us he remarked for they can hardly take any steps until the good pawnbroker is safely in bed .
there were it is true some upon his right but he pointed to his which had been cut near the nail and explained that the bleeding came from there adding that he had been to the window not long before and that the stains which had been observed there came doubtless from the same source .
it was difficult to refuse any of sherlock holmes requests for they were always so exceedingly definite and put forward with such a quiet air of mastery .
then your majesty and i trust that we shall soon have some good news for you .
in spite of the attempts of the friends to hush the matter up so much public attention has now been drawn to it that no good purpose can be served by affecting to disregard what is a common subject for conversation .
your sister is dead then ?
it is likely that we should have gone on to paris only that this good gentleman holmes came round to us this evening though how he found us is more than i can think and he showed us very clearly and kindly that i was wrong and that frank was right and that we should be putting ourselves in the wrong if we were so secret .
he picked it up and gazed at it in the peculiar introspective fashion which was characteristic of him .
arthur !
he wouldn t have any visitors if he could help it and he used to say that a woman should be happy in her own family circle .
some scaffolding had been erected against the end wall and the had been broken into but there were no signs of any workmen at the moment of our visit .
she rose at once .
were there gipsies in the plantation at the time ?
but i ll go home with you .
my eye caught the name of openshaw and the heading tragedy near waterloo bridge .
i have come incognito from prague for the purpose of consulting you .
he put a hand on either side of his head and rocked himself to and fro droning to himself like a child whose grief has got beyond words .
i heard that and i came down .
it seems to me that you have been very shamefully treated said holmes .
it is true .
his face flushed and darkened .
let me see said holmes standing at the corner and glancing along the line i should like just to remember the order of the houses here .
your presence might be invaluable .
you may address me as the count von kramm a bohemian nobleman .
it had cleared in the morning and the sun was shining with a subdued brightness through the dim veil which hangs over the great city .
please be at the black swan hotel at winchester at midday it said .
about nine o clock the light among the trees was extinguished and all was dark in the direction of the manor house .
colonel lysander stark sprang out and as i followed after him pulled me swiftly into a porch which gaped in front of us .
i am afraid that i am a little late but i am not quite my own master you know .
if she had it must be someone from america because she had spent so short a time in this country that she could hardly have allowed anyone to acquire so deep an influence over her that the mere sight of him would induce her to change her plans so completely .
the boscombe pool is thickly wooded round with just a fringe of grass and of reeds round the edge .
could i not come at some more convenient hour ?
oh yes you can .
there are small lateral columns of water outside which receive the force and which transmit and multiply it in the manner which is familiar to you .
my dear fellow there lies the problem .
and first as to how it came here .
i have them in the hollow of my hand .
not so many as you might think he answered .
i took up the envelope and saw scrawled in red ink upon the inner flap just above the gum the letter k three times repeated .
next monday i have a large sum due to me and i shall then most certainly repay what you advance with whatever interest you think it right to charge .
were it not for the ugly wound upon my hand all that had passed during those dreadful hours might have been an evil dream .
there was one wing however which appeared not to be inhabited at all .
now by the merest chance his wife received a telegram upon this same monday very shortly after his departure to the effect that a small parcel of considerable value which she had been expecting was waiting for her at the offices of the aberdeen shipping company .
i was determined to preserve my disguise as long as possible and hence my preference for a dirty face .
at least that was my first impression .
do you tell me that all this happened within a few yards of your bed and that you heard nothing of it ?
then they carried me in .
they were on the upper floor and from our window we could command a view of the avenue gate and of the inhabited wing of stoke moran manor house .
oh indeed !
i inquired of him whether he had ever heard of colonel lysander stark .
i placed my revolver cocked upon the top of the wooden case behind which i crouched .
you have the photograph ?
one day it was in march a letter with a foreign stamp lay upon the table in front of the colonel s plate .
you will excuse me said holmes blandly but i could not help overhearing the questions which you put to the salesman just now .
so long was he that holder and i went into the and waited by the fire until he should return .
here you are mrs .
it came right over the forehead and settled upon the bridge of his nose .
what do you imagine that it means ?
i beg that you will draw your chair up to the fire and favour me with some details as to your case .
he is looking up at the numbers of the houses .
about two in the morning then i was awakened by some sound in the house .
i am for west remarked the man .
a day which has saved england from a great public scandal said the banker rising .
that you are never beaten .
very .
whom have i the honour to address ?
you interest me extremely said holmes .
eight weeks passed away like this and i had written about abbots and archery and armour and architecture and attica and hoped with diligence that i might get on to the b s before very long .
i think watson he remarked at last that of all our cases we have had none more fantastic than this .
one is to a firm in the city the other is to the young lady s stepfather windibank asking him whether he could meet us here at six o clock evening .
passing down the waterloo bridge road we crossed over the river and dashing up wellington street wheeled sharply to the right and found ourselves in bow street .
my experience of camp life in afghanistan had at least had the effect of making me a prompt and ready traveller .
nay he was bringing home the goose as a to his wife .
he stood said holmes to the left of the door that is to say farther up the path than is necessary to reach the door ?
no excuse will avail said duncan ross neither sickness nor business nor anything else .
it could not be delirium .
we passed up the stair unlocked the door followed on down a passage and found ourselves in front of the barricade which miss hunter had described .
there are a few of us who frequent the alpha inn near the museum we are to be found in the museum itself during the day you understand .
i have been cut to the quick .
we have known each other since we were little children and i know his faults as no one else does but he is too to hurt a fly .
his broad black hat his baggy trousers his white tie his sympathetic smile and general look of peering and benevolent curiosity were such as john hare alone could have equalled .
do you receive much company ?
the rest is of the greyish colour which shows that has been used .
b .
this woman might for all i knew be a monomaniac .
get back into your chair !
the singular incident made as you may think the deepest impression upon me and i pondered over it and turned it every way in my mind without being able to make anything of it .
not more than is usual in my family .
i shall jot down the facts .
the man sprang from his chair and paced up and down the room in uncontrollable agitation .
but i have heard all that you have heard .
i gave the maid a card but i see that she has left it upon the .
yet when i think of him in cold blood far away from the glamour of his presence i am convinced from his cynical speech and the look which i have caught in his eyes that he is one who should be deeply distrusted .
it is always awkward doing business with an alias .
holmes shook his clenched hands in the air .
what do you mean ?
perfectly so .
he cried .
he hurried to his chamber and was down again in a few minutes dressed as a common loafer .
do you know the young lady ?
very well .
and indeed i could not wonder that such a man as sir george burnwell should gain an influence over him for he has frequently brought him to my house and i have found myself that i could hardly resist the fascination of his manner .
then i went into the back yard and smoked a pipe and wondered what it would be best to do .
indeed .
it is all dark to me .
the idea of using a form of poison which could not possibly be discovered by any chemical test was just such a one as would occur to a clever and ruthless man who had had an eastern training .
the double line a little above the wrist where the typewritist presses against the table was beautifully defined .
merryweather stopped to light a lantern and then conducted us down a dark passage and so after opening a third door into a huge vault or cellar which was piled all round with crates and massive boxes .
then when the row broke out i had a little moist red paint in the palm of my hand .
well you can easily think that that made me prick up my ears for the business has not been over good for some years and an extra couple of hundred would have been very handy .
interjected holmes .
he only as i understand gave an inarticulate cry ?
and how far from the edge of the wood ?
this i take it belongs to the room in which you used to sleep the centre one to your sister s and the one next to the main building to roylott s chamber ?
was it to be in church ?
i suppose i remarked that homely as it looks this thing has some deadly story linked on to it that it is the clue which will guide you in the solution of some mystery and the punishment of some crime .
to determine its exact meaning i have been obliged to work out the present prices of the investments with which it is concerned .
one of these whom i had cured of a painful and lingering disease was never weary of advertising my virtues and of endeavouring to send me on every sufferer over whom he might have any influence .
here is an advertisement which will interest you said he .
i wasn t best pleased holmes when she married again so soon after father s death and a man who was nearly fifteen years younger than herself .
he is so cunning that i never know when i am safe from him .
it corresponds with the injuries .
lady simon said something about jumping a claim .
no except that it was leadenhall street .
very indeed .
i have been a governess for five years said she in the family of colonel spence munro but two months ago the colonel received an appointment at halifax in nova scotia and took his children over to america with him so that i found myself without a situation .
i put the case into your hands and shall do exactly what you advise .
but madam said i i have not yet done what i came for .
what can i do for you mr .
no sir i shall approach this case from the point of view that what this young man says is true and we shall see whither that hypothesis will lead us .
the first was from pondicherry the second from dundee and the third from london .
my practice had steadily increased and as i happened to live at no very great distance from paddington station i got a few patients from among the officials .
one of his hands .
arms azure three caltrops in chief over a fess sable .
outside the stars were shining coldly in a cloudless sky and the breath of the blew out into smoke like so many pistol shots .
mr .
you see holmes said he my wife was twenty before her father became a rich man .
then i can wait in the next room .
that bears out his story .
asked holmes with a twinkle in his eye .
oh very well .
i do not think that i have ever seen so thin a man .
he has however retained some degree of he continued disregarding my remonstrance .
we are only just in time to prevent some subtle and horrible crime .
i kissed her and went up to my bedroom again where i was soon asleep .
i gave a cry of surprise threw up my arms to cover my face and rushing to my confidant the lascar entreated him to prevent anyone from coming up to me .
said holmes severely .
i should be able to look after that for you .
no i can not !
i ve had enough of you and your geese he shouted .
james windibank wished miss sutherland to be so bound to hosmer angel and so uncertain as to his fate that for ten years to come at any rate she would not listen to another man .
he carried a hat in his hand while he wore across the upper part of his face extending down past the cheekbones a black vizard mask which he had apparently adjusted that very moment for his hand was still raised to it as he entered .
ha !
the banker recoiled in horror .
we may take it then that she does not carry it about with her .
these are the more patent facts which are to be deduced from his hat .
on the contrary my dear sir cried the king nothing could be more successful .
i deserve to be kicked from here to charing cross .
there were meetings and an engagement which would finally secure the girl s affections from turning towards anyone else .
the had not finished his speech before we were all hastening in the direction of the fire .
you can hardly expect us to exert ourselves to find another such opening for you .
what d you want to frighten a chap for ?
of course i never doubted for a moment that my first duty was now to him and i determined to do just whatever he might direct .
what shall i do ?
inspector barton who had charge of the case made a very careful examination of the premises but without finding anything which threw any light upon the matter .
he looked at me with a last long questioning gaze and then pressing my hand in a cold dank grasp he hurried from the room .
the copper beeches five miles on the far side of winchester .
you thief !
there is half a column of print but i know without reading it that it is all perfectly familiar to me .
quite so .
i was so terrified that i do not know what i did .
if horner were in danger it would be another thing but this fellow will not appear against him and the case must collapse .
this year our good host windigate by name instituted a goose club by which on consideration of some few pence every week we were each to receive a bird at christmas .
the vanishing of the lady .
i asked .
i searched the dundee records and when i found that the barque lone star was there in january my suspicion became a certainty .
one child one dear little romper just six years old .
god help me !
i look at them and the only thought which comes to me is a feeling of their isolation and of the impunity with which crime may be committed there .
i tried to look out of the windows to see something of where we were but they were made of frosted glass and i could make out nothing save the occasional bright blur of a passing light .
we must sit without light .
miss stoner did so and holmes after a careful examination through the open window endeavoured in every way to force the shutter open but without success .
you see watson our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more important and less innocent aspect .
there were sherlock holmes the hydraulic engineer inspector bradstreet of scotland yard a man and myself .
oh sherlock holmes !
absolutely ?
what could be the reason of his overpowering terror ?
and the murderer ?
we waited all curiosity until with another effort he braced himself to tell his story .
folk who were in grief came to my wife like birds to a lighthouse .
why what did you think ?
no one is stirring yet but i know where the sleeps and we shall soon have the trap out .
ah said holmes i think that what you have been good enough to tell us makes the matter fairly clear and that i can deduce all that remains .
i shall be at baker street at ten .
how came the stone into the goose and how came the goose into the open market ?
alas !
i am sure that you are right holmes cried our client .
it is both or none said he .
yes sir but very quietly .
just ring the bell and the maid will bring up your coffee .
because there are many inquiries which must be made out here .
precisely .
by train from waterloo .
i then glanced at her face and observing the dint of a at either side of her nose i ventured a remark upon short sight and typewriting which seemed to surprise her .
it is very unlike his usual writing and yet i know it well .
round his brow he had a peculiar yellow band with brownish speckles which seemed to be bound tightly round his head .
i had hardly finished when holmes returned with the news that the boy was putting in the horse .
the point about the signature is very suggestive in fact we may call it conclusive .
i saw nothing remarkable save the and what purpose that could answer i confess is more than i can imagine .
yes .
i think that this typewritten letter is from you in which you made an appointment with me for six o clock ?
what is the name of this obliging youth ?
during two years i have had three consultations and one small job and that is absolutely all that my profession has brought me .
said she .
angel s address you never had i understand .
he denied strenuously having ever seen neville clair and swore that the presence of the clothes in his room was as much a mystery to him as to the police .
to my surprise the question provoked a burst of anger from the salesman .
above the woods which lined it upon the farther side we could see the red jutting pinnacles which marked the site of the rich landowner s dwelling .
it is most refreshingly unusual .
witness he mumbled a few words but i could only catch some allusion to a rat .
i must go home now for dad is very ill and he misses me so if i leave him .
never in my life have i seen such a sight .
i had no keener pleasure than in following holmes in his professional investigations and in admiring the rapid deductions as swift as intuitions and yet always founded on a logical basis with which he unravelled the problems which were submitted to him .
none .
to me it has been exceptionally so .
i had stooped and was scraping at this to see exactly what it was when i heard a muttered exclamation in german and saw the cadaverous face of the colonel looking down at me .
certainly .
the case has been an interesting one remarked holmes when our visitors had left us because it serves to show very clearly how simple the explanation may be of an affair which at first sight seems to be almost inexplicable .
you ?
i passed round the garden without seeing anything more than random tracks which i took to be the police but when i got into the stable lane a very long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me .
the king may do what he will without hindrance from one whom he has cruelly wronged .
he raised his hand .
well let us hope so .
i asked .
i cudgelled my brains to find some possible explanation .
do you see ?
it is a customary contraction like our co .
bankers safes had been forced before now and why should not mine be ?
and your father ?
holmes unlocked his and held up the blue carbuncle which shone out like a star with a cold brilliant radiance .
with much labour we separated them and carried him living but horribly mangled into the house .
well holmes from the moment that i understood that there was something about that suite of rooms which i was not to know i was all on fire to go over them .
she smiled back at me closed my door and a few moments later i heard her key turn in the lock .
it was a bright crisp february morning and the snow of the day before still lay deep upon the ground shimmering brightly in the wintry sun .
i hardly think that likely .
i think that i will go in and have a word with moran and perhaps write a little note .
why said i glancing up at my companion that was surely the bell .
i have an inspector and two officers waiting at the front door .
the leader of the gang .
only one of those whimsical little incidents which will happen when you have four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles .
so far i had got before i ever heard lord simon s narrative .
he appeared to be much surprised at seeing me and asked me rather roughly what i was doing there .
i want the doctor s advice and help too .
my dear fellow is it possible you do not see how strongly it bears upon the case ?
it was after five o clock when sherlock holmes left me but i had no time to be lonely for within an hour there arrived a confectioner s man with a very large flat box .
shortly after our return to england my mother died she was killed eight years ago in a railway accident near crewe .
in my position you can readily understand that it is unwise to place one s self under obligations .
we were both in the photograph .
you work your own method and i shall work mine .
some preposterous practical joke said he .
it certainly sounds feasible .
from amid the branches there jutted out the grey gables and high of a very old mansion .
nor from below said merryweather striking his stick upon the flags which lined the floor .
the man who entered was a sturdy fellow some thirty years of age and with a bland insinuating manner and a pair of wonderfully sharp and penetrating grey eyes .
she is swift in making up her mind and fearless in carrying out her resolutions .
undoubtedly so .
but the deception could not be kept up forever .
cried hatherley in intense excitement .
i have determined therefore to call upon you and to consult you in reference to the very painful event which has occurred in connection with my wedding .
now lead the way and we shall soon see the end of this black business .
when i got back i told my maid who had known him in california and had always been his friend .
nothing could have been better .
it was to be at saviour s near king s cross and we were to have breakfast afterwards at the pancras hotel .
do you know him ?
the idea of a snake instantly occurred to me and when i coupled it with my knowledge that the doctor was furnished with a supply of creatures from india i felt that i was probably on the right track .
amid the action and reaction of so dense a swarm of humanity every possible combination of events may be expected to take place and many a little problem will be presented which may be striking and bizarre without being criminal .
as i waited i lifted the unopened newspaper from the table and glanced my eye over it .
the inspector and two men accompanied her back and in spite of the continued resistance of the proprietor they made their way to the room in which clair had last been seen .
do not join in it .
vi .
grimesby roylott s chamber was larger than that of his but was as plainly furnished .
and the man who wrote the note is a german .
of these he took five and thrust them into an envelope .
on your arm ?
this he opened and made a very careful examination of the sill with his powerful magnifying lens .
i thought of my fee of my wearisome journey and of the unpleasant night which seemed to be before me .
we re hunting in couples again doctor you see said jones in his consequential way .
mrs .
if i can not persuade you to take a lenient view of the matter lord simon i have brought an advocate here who may be more successful .
there are grounds round it woods on three sides and on the fourth a field which slopes down to the southampton high road which curves past about a hundred yards from the front door .
!
you would not think apiece an excessive sum for them ?
would you ?
sherlock holmes was not very communicative during the long drive and lay back in the cab humming the tunes which he had heard in the afternoon .
which of you is holmes ?
i have ordered a carriage said lestrade as we sat over a cup of tea .
we are in a civilised land here and we can t have tomfoolery of this kind .
even his voice was gentle .
ten to two .
yet we have not a moment to lose .
where did he live then ?
jump archie jump and i ll swing for it !
they seem to have been of a most interesting character dummy and ventilators which do not ventilate .
but i must be prompt over this matter .
no .
quite so .
it was of excellent material a sort of beige but it bore unmistakable signs of having been worn before .
i had no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off both my hat and the bird .
i came to find a friend .
he is one of the most dangerous men in england a ruined gambler an absolutely desperate villain a man without heart or conscience .
smack !
what could that something be ?
we are on the outskirts of lee said my companion .
with a short greeting he seated himself and lit the cigar which had been offered to him .
we shall now have a little supper and then retire for we may have a very busy day .
you have evidently seen more in these rooms than was visible to me .
you see this little book ?
holmes scribbled a receipt upon a sheet of his and handed it to him .
he was a singular man fierce and very when he was angry and of a most retiring disposition .
i have seen young mccarthy .
excellent !
he was too good and kind to leave me so .
well !
evidently there was a skylight which let in light from above .
but there i was firm .
i yelled .
she was quiet when she saw that there was no good in making a row .
it is most unlikely that she carries it about with her .
i suppose that we are absolutely safe from eavesdroppers ?
i have made my dark room up there .
not only that but the signature is typewritten .
you ll come with me won t you ?
yes it did .
he will be silent !
that which my son himself indicated that of the cupboard of the .
but i shall return by the twelve o clock train so as to be there in time for your coming .
oh i have heard of that fellow answered my visitor and i should be very glad if he would take the matter up though of course i must use the official police as well .
then suddenly springing to his feet he beat his head against the wall with such force that we both rushed upon him and tore him away to the centre of the room .
i shall want your help .
when he was sober he used to be fond of playing backgammon and draughts with me and he would make me his representative both with the servants and with the tradespeople so that by the time that i was sixteen i was quite master of the house .
why dash it all !
then what has happened to him ?
suddenly amid all the hubbub of the gale there burst forth the wild scream of a terrified woman .
in the case of another said he the objection might be fatal but we must stretch a point in favour of a man with such a head of hair as yours .
he would seize the coat then and be in the act of throwing it out when it would occur to him that it would swim and not sink .
asked holmes .
shall be glad if you will come with me .
yes king edward street near st .
i will do so and i will show you the steps by which i reached it .
altogether look as i would there was nothing remarkable about the man save his blazing red head and the expression of extreme chagrin and discontent upon his features .
pray continue your very interesting statement .
obviously something had occurred during the morning then to cause her to change her mind .
i took advantage now of my attainments .
i feel better now and i will put the facts before you as shortly and yet as clearly as i can .
you said ten miles i think sir .
in the larger and older jewels every facet may stand for a bloody deed .
no a client .
he held in his hand a sheet of blue paper scrawled over with notes and figures .
and what are they worth ?
holmes was silent and buried in thought with a pained expression upon his face as one who finds himself in a perplexing position .
her lips too were bloodless but her eyes were flushed with crying .
that and a are i think all that we need .
it was only by trying begging as an amateur that i could get the facts upon which to base my articles .
i hurried to him but he passed away without having ever recovered his consciousness .
my niece mary has deserted me .
it is wonderful !
suddenly to my horror there was a distinct sound of footsteps moving softly in the next room .
no crime but a very great error has been committed said holmes .
the dog is let loose at night to prevent him from endeavouring to communicate with her .
among these he rummaged and read with intervals of and of meditation until we were past reading .
the man hesitated for an instant .
i wish to have a quiet word with you bradstreet .
one of our most lucrative means of laying out money is in the shape of loans where the security is unimpeachable .
but who is he ?
stoke moran ?
frankly now !
no he was averse to it also .
it was only a joke at first groaned our visitor .
you want to go home no doubt doctor he remarked as we emerged .
yes have you not heard ?
i had come to the conclusion that he had dropped asleep and indeed was nodding myself when he suddenly sprang out of his chair with the gesture of a man who has made up his mind and put his pipe down upon the mantelpiece .
i heard a gentle sound of movement and then all was silent once more though the smell grew stronger .
ordering my cab to wait i passed down the steps worn hollow in the centre by the ceaseless tread of drunken feet and by the light of a flickering above the door i found the latch and made my way into a long low room thick and heavy with the brown opium smoke and terraced with wooden berths like the forecastle of an emigrant ship .
on the other hand i would not have given her the name which i have the honour to bear he gave a little stately cough had i not thought her to be at bottom a noble woman .
i fail to see that anyone is to blame .
he has seen too much .
let us glance at our continental gazetteer .
you have done wisely said my friend .
you have come to me to tell your story have you not ?
but for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results .
one singular point which struck her quick feminine eye was that although he wore some dark coat such as he had started to town in he had on neither collar nor necktie .
yes i see .
and now miss stoner we must leave you for if roylott returned and saw us our journey would be in vain .
what of the rat then ?
botany variable geology profound as regards the from any region within fifty miles of town chemistry eccentric anatomy unsystematic sensational literature and crime records unique boxer swordsman lawyer and by cocaine and tobacco .
my gross takings amount to .
in a hundred other ways he has helped him .
it is absolutely essential to me said he that i should have at once .
then he turned down the lamp and we were left in darkness .
our visitor collapsed into a chair with a ghastly face and a glitter of moisture on his brow .
the very first key fitted to perfection and i drew the drawer open .
the man s business was a small one and there was nothing in his house which could account for such elaborate preparations and such an expenditure as they were at .
can you remember any other little things about hosmer angel ?
what did she do on her father s house ?
never .
look out for me about eleven .
the g with the small t stands for gesellschaft which is the german for company .
there is no mystery my dear madam said he smiling .
in her right hand was found the charred stump of a match and in her left a .
her bed this morning had not been slept in her room was empty and a note for me lay upon the hall table .
i tell you that .
oh how simple it would all have been had i been here before they came like a herd of buffalo and wallowed all over it .
i have it here and i will read it to you the copper beeches near winchester .
the ring after all proves nothing .
for a long time he remained there turning over the leaves and dried sticks gathering up what seemed to me to be dust into an envelope and examining with his lens not only the ground but even the bark of the tree as far as he could reach .
i did not wish to lose such a place without a struggle so as i had heard that you were good enough to give advice to poor folk who were in need of it i came right away to you .
the photograph becomes a weapon now .
he was very willing to have a holiday so we shut the business up and started off for the address that was given us in the advertisement .
coming on the top of such a damning series of events it was at least a most suspicious remark .
it would of course instantly strike him that he must get rid of the garments .
yes .
and now watson we shall order breakfast and afterwards i shall walk down to doctors commons where i hope to get some data which may help us in this matter .
the lady i think you have already met .
yes we could easily give you a .
well really i came to seek a theory not to propound one .
the speckled band !
his face fell immediately .
it was obvious at a glance that the story of the fuller was the merest fabrication for it would be absurd to suppose that so powerful an engine could be designed for so inadequate a purpose .
and now doctor we can do nothing until the answers to those letters come so we may put our little problem upon the shelf for the interim .
the lady coloured deeply and covered over her injured wrist .
i seem to be in the grasp of some resistless inexorable evil which no foresight and no precautions can guard against .
indeed apart from the nature of the investigation which my friend had on hand there was something in his masterly grasp of a situation and his keen incisive reasoning which made it a pleasure to me to study his system of work and to follow the quick subtle methods by which he disentangled the most inextricable mysteries .
third right fourth left answered the assistant promptly closing the door .
breckinridge of covent garden .
heaven forgive me for that last sentence but the words came to my lips .
the bride who had fortunately entered the house before this unpleasant interruption had sat down to breakfast with the rest when she complained of a sudden indisposition and retired to her room .
she was slighted like and had no say in anything but it never really became bad for her until after she met fowler at a friend s house .
your life may depend upon your compliance .
just as i arrived the door was opened and we were shown up together to holmes room .
there are windows in it of course ?
it is our french gold whispered the director .
said he you must not think me rude if i passed you without a word my dear young lady .
the same post brought me a letter from westhouse marbank of fenchurch street to say that the description tallied in every respect with that of their employé james windibank .
the newcomers were colonel lysander stark and a short thick man with a chinchilla beard growing out of the creases of his double chin who was introduced to me as ferguson .
how long they seemed those quarters !
he had been out with his in the morning at ross and he had told the man that he must hurry as he had an appointment of importance to keep at three .
the matter passed however and my father entered into possession of the estate and of some which lay to his credit at the bank .
we have not yet grasped the results which the reason alone can attain to .
i remember that it was full of papers .
pray take a seat miss hunter .
our visitor staggered to his feet and clutched the mantelpiece with his right hand .
the other was his singular dying reference to a rat .
you will sign it and watson here can witness it .
but a very serious one to me returned the king reproachfully .
i assure you watson without affectation that the status of my client is a matter of less moment to me than the interest of his case .
yes one of my natural enemies or shall i say my natural prey .
we used always to get what we wanted for ourselves .
oh well he was very good about it .
beyond lay another dull wilderness of bricks and mortar its silence broken only by the heavy regular footfall of the policeman or the songs and shouts of some belated party of revellers .
just see how it glints and sparkles .
of these bedrooms the first is roylott s the second my sister s and the third my own .
he might avert it all if he would but tell me what he had done with the three missing stones .
whatever he wanted he must have and whatever it was i gave him without question land money houses until at last he asked a thing which i could not give .
and not a word to a soul .
the lining had been of red silk but was a good deal discoloured .
and what did you do then ?
he certainly needs a wash remarked holmes .
why should she hand it over to anyone else ?
he asked .
it is the german who is so uncourteous to his verbs .
the men had known each other in the colonies so that it was not unnatural that when they came to settle down they should do so as near each other as possible .
i thought i heard a ring .
it struck cold to our hearts and i stood gazing at holmes and he at me until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from which it rose .
he gives me hopes .
three thousand will cover the matter .
these articles with two small chairs made up all the furniture in the room save for a square of wilton carpet in the centre .
i ll do better .
to sherlock holmes she is always the woman .
this is my friend and colleague watson who is occasionally good enough to help me in my cases .
might i ask you a question or two ?
sherlock holmes took it up and opened the bureau .
he asked for alice .
there will call upon you at a quarter to eight o clock it said a gentleman who desires to consult you upon a matter of the very deepest moment .
i say watson what o clock is it ?
but he ll be gone before you can get him to hospital .
you horrify me .
i knew your energetic nature and that you would not be happy until you had been on the scene of the crime .
just beyond it however at the far side of the kitchen door a woman had stood and talked with a man whose round impressions on one side showed that he had a wooden leg .
well it is not for me to judge you said holmes as the old man signed the statement which had been drawn out .
i do not quite follow he said .
one day however as i ascended the stair i met rucastle coming out through this door his keys in his hand and a look on his face which made him a very different person to the round jovial man to whom i was accustomed .
is there a cellar with a good strong lock ?
the best possible .
how dare you touch that coronet ?
here is the note written in pencil over here .
it was quite against my wishes that she came but she is a very excitable impulsive girl as you may have noticed and she is not easily controlled when she has made up her mind on a point .
fowler and miss rucastle were married by special license in southampton the day after their flight and he is now the holder of a government appointment in the island of mauritius .
imitated .
whatever your reasons may be you are perfectly correct said she .
my pence were duly paid and the rest is familiar to you .
to smoke he answered .
yes sir .
he stepped swiftly forward seized the poker and bent it into a curve with his huge brown hands .
now robert you have heard it all and i am very sorry if i have given you pain and i hope that you do not think very meanly of me .
a man had waited outside the window someone had brought the gems the deed had been overseen by your son he had pursued the thief had struggled with him they had each tugged at the coronet their united strength causing injuries which neither alone could have effected .
i see her ladyship s .
watson i fear that you will find it very slow but i shall only be away a couple of hours .
if i may give an opinion remarked the strange gentleman we ve had just a little too much secrecy over this business already .
i leave a photograph which he might care to possess and i remain dear sherlock holmes very truly yours irene norton née adler .
hence you see my double deduction that you had been out in vile weather and that you had a particularly malignant specimen of the london slavey .
kindly hand me down the letter k of the american encyclopædia which stands upon the shelf beside you .
remarked holmes .
oh it won t do really it won t said holmes suavely .
we neither of us care for it .
there was little difficulty in entering the grounds for unrepaired breaches gaped in the old park wall .
then i started to go round the house to see that all was secure a duty which i usually leave to mary but which i thought it well to perform myself that night .
cried the banker with a gesture of despair .
then he handed me a novel and moving my chair a little sideways that my own shadow might not fall upon the page he begged me to read aloud to him .
hosmer angel came to the house again and proposed that we should marry before father came back .
well said i the gentleman at no .
i believe holmes that you have already made up your mind said miss stoner laying her hand upon my companion s sleeve .
oscillation upon the pavement always means an affaire de cœur .
before the what ?
the other clothes would have followed but at that moment there was a rush of constables up the stair and a few minutes after i found rather i confess to my relief that instead of being identified as neville clair i was arrested as his murderer .
i could not sleep that night .
ha !
yes and she was the girl who waited in the and who may have heard uncle s remarks about the coronet .
he asked at last pointing to a thick which hung down beside the bed the tassel actually lying upon the pillow .
if the police are to hush this thing up there must be no more of hugh boone .
how do you know that ?
keep your forgiveness for those who ask for it he answered turning away from me with a sneer .
so it is he cried .
no no we should have him loitering here always .
a loud thudding noise came from somewhere downstairs .
it is a little off the beaten track isn t it ?
quite so .
it proved to be that of a young gentleman whose name as it appears from an envelope which was found in his pocket was john openshaw and whose residence is near horsham .
that is the cedars and beside that lamp sits a woman whose anxious ears have already i have little doubt caught the clink of our horse s feet .
i hope that i have made myself clear ?
the photograph is now as safe as if it were in the fire .
not at all said i i shall be very happy to accommodate myself to your wishes .
have you your ?
they all appear to be adhesive and there is a distinct odour of .
do not trouble about my feelings .
i am afraid said i that the facts are so obvious that you will find little credit to be gained out of this case .
he is not a very youth though comely to look at and i should think sound at heart .
you must confine yourself to your room on pretence of a headache when your stepfather comes back .
i asked the same as the one i chose ?
pshaw my dear fellow what do the public the great unobservant public who could hardly tell a weaver by his tooth or a compositor by his left thumb care about the finer shades of analysis and deduction !
it is a good seven miles from eyford station .
there you are .
i thought people would talk if i went to the hall .
the alarm however was given and by the aid of the the body was eventually recovered .
pray take the .
do not go asleep your very life may depend upon it .
they drove away in different directions and i went off to make my own arrangements .
how would fifty guineas for a night s work suit you ?
i followed them up and found they led to the hall window where boots had worn all the snow away while waiting .
i hardly noticed his appearance .
he laughed i remember and shrugged his shoulders and said there was no use denying anything to a woman for she would have her way .
i did not gain very much however by my inspection .
the man in the road was undoubtedly some friend of hers possibly her fiancé and no doubt as you wore the girl s dress and were so like her he was convinced from your laughter whenever he saw you and afterwards from your gesture that miss rucastle was perfectly happy and that she no longer desired his attentions .
he asked .
i think that i could be of assistance to you .
is that your hat mr .
my doctor says it is a question whether i shall live a month .
no for it was followed by a protestation of innocence .
in these cases save for one rather intricate matter which has been referred to me from marseilles there is nothing which presents any features of interest .
in your heart of hearts do you think that neville is alive ?
that is better said john clay serenely .
by the select prices .
i won t insult your intelligence by telling you how i read that especially as rather against the strict rules of your order you use an breastpin .
there will probably be some small unpleasantness .
there was nothing .
my stepfather s business papers .
when it was concluded he settled our new acquaintance upon the sofa placed a pillow beneath his head and laid a glass of brandy and water within his reach .
he was doing something in the cellar something which took many hours a day for months on end .
it seemed likely enough that the weighted coat had remained when the stripped body had been sucked away into the river .
but i want to find out about them and who they are and what their object was in playing this prank if it was a prank upon me .
but being saturday rather complicates matters .
as he spoke he picked up the steel poker and with a sudden effort straightened it out again .
the blow has always fallen at the end of the time which it would take the senders to travel the distance .
who would think that so pretty a toy would be a purveyor to the gallows and the prison ?
come man come only three minutes or it won t be legal .
do you mean that she has left england ?
lestrade showed us the exact spot at which the body had been found and indeed so moist was the ground that i could plainly see the traces which had been left by the fall of the stricken man .
her banker or her lawyer .
come !
quite so he answered lighting a cigarette and throwing himself down into an armchair .
i had seen little of holmes lately .
what is he like this vincent spaulding ?
but then as i used to say to mother a woman wants her own circle to begin with and i had not got mine yet .
cried miss hunter .
he flicked the horse with his whip and we dashed away through the endless succession of sombre and deserted streets which widened gradually until we were flying across a broad balustraded bridge with the murky river flowing sluggishly beneath us .
i perceive also that whoever addressed the envelope had to go and inquire as to the address .
i was aware of it said holmes dryly .
quite so .
and where was the place ?
that sounds a little paradoxical .
now what did you gather from that woman s appearance ?
there it is where the lady is walking .
surely this is not your husband s writing madam .
it might or might not bite the occupant perhaps she might escape every night for a week but sooner or later she must fall a victim .
yesterday morning i was seated in my office at the bank when a card was brought in to me by one of the clerks .
again i changed my dress again i sat in the window and again i laughed very heartily at the funny stories of which my employer had an immense répertoire and which he told inimitably .
these are young mccarthy s feet .
it was a quarter past six when we left baker street and it still wanted ten minutes to the hour when we found ourselves in serpentine avenue .
i dine at seven .
he took a step backward slammed the little door and turned the key in the lock .
a client then ?
i kept all the keys and could go where i liked and do what i liked so long as i did not disturb him in his privacy .
well certainly that is also a conceivable hypothesis said holmes smiling .
on following him they found the dead body stretched out upon the grass beside the pool .
he led us down a passage opened a barred door passed down a winding stair and brought us to a whitewashed corridor with a line of doors on each side .
this also was opened and led down a flight of winding stone steps which terminated at another formidable gate .
i knew that none had fallen since the evening before and also that there had been a strong frost to preserve impressions .
on the other hand he has endeavoured to conceal some of these stains upon the felt by daubing them with ink which is a sign that he has not entirely lost his .
i distinctly saw his bare throat .
what a strange idea !
i see many objections to any such theory .
he has died within ten seconds of being bitten .
i had been told that if the king employed an agent it would certainly be you .
his orders were to stay in the house .
my friend was an enthusiastic musician being himself not only a very capable performer but a composer of no ordinary merit .
tell me broke in the engineer is becher a german very thin with a long sharp nose ?
it was a slight sir a public slight said lord simon tapping his fingers upon the table .
holmes laughed softly to himself and stretched himself out upon the cushioned seat .
nothing of the sort .
we were all assembled round him when the door opened and a tall gaunt woman entered the room .
our footfalls rang out crisply and loudly as we swung through the doctors quarter wimpole street harley street and so through wigmore street into oxford street .
insensibly one begins to twist facts to suit theories instead of theories to suit facts .
his eyes twinkled and there was even a touch of colour upon his sallow cheeks .
no legal papers or certificates ?
if this young person should produce her letters for blackmailing or other purposes how is she to prove their authenticity ?
but you were on a friendly footing ?
i have every reason to believe that we shall be in time to stop it .
twice my boy has asked her to marry him for he loves her devotedly but each time she has refused him .
come at once .
in height strongly built sallow complexion black hair a little bald in the centre bushy black and moustache tinted glasses slight infirmity of speech .
asked holmes .
perhaps wilson you would have the great kindness to recommence your narrative .
i have been out to streatham since i saw you last but i did not call at the house .
he will find it as sure a precursor of his fate as openshaw did before him .
my morning s work has not been wasted since it has proved that he has the very strongest motives for standing in the way of anything of the sort .
when a woman thinks that her house is on fire her instinct is at once to rush to the thing which she values most .
.
i have myself some small business matters to attend to .
i have no data yet .
he suddenly sprang up and darting like lightning across the room he flung open the door .
it looks as if they always send their singular warning or token before them when starting upon their mission .
he was a patentee of the openshaw unbreakable tire and his business met with such success that he was able to sell it and to retire upon a handsome competence .
her gloves were greyish and were worn through at the right forefinger .
the drawn blinds and the smokeless chimneys however gave it a stricken look as though the weight of this horror still lay heavy upon it .
some too have baffled his analytical skill and would be as narratives beginnings without an ending while others have been but partially cleared up and have their explanations founded rather upon conjecture and surmise than on that absolute logical proof which was so dear to him .
a little too much so .
i have just been there and i have taken it out and i have got it in this gladstone bag .
it was dated from montague place upon the preceding evening and ran thus dear holmes i am very anxious to consult you as to whether i should or should not accept a situation which has been offered to me as governess .
two years have passed since then and my life has been until lately lonelier than ever .
why it is after nine now i answered .
no she was in her .
he made a sweeping bow to the three of us and walked quietly off in the custody of the detective .
well holmes when i got back to my lodgings and found little enough in the cupboard and two or three bills upon the table i began to ask myself whether i had not done a very foolish thing .
born in new jersey in the year contralto hum !
i shouted beside myself with rage .
.
yesterday however just as i was thinking of leaving the office my clerk entered to say there was a gentleman waiting who wished to see me upon business .
having done that we may drive back to our luncheon .
here is the stone the stone came from the goose and the goose came from henry baker the gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with which i have bored you .
pray continue your most interesting statement .
that also i could fathom .
indeed i have found that it is usually in unimportant matters that there is a field for the observation and for the quick analysis of cause and effect which gives the charm to an investigation .
ah miss it is a pity you didn t let me know what you were planning for i would have told you that your pains were wasted .
that is well .
it was a quiet little plainly furnished room with a round table in the centre on which several german books were scattered .
beyond these signs of his activity however which i merely shared with all the readers of the daily press i knew little of my former friend and companion .
your recent services to one of the royal houses of europe have shown that you are one who may safely be trusted with matters which are of an importance which can hardly be exaggerated .
i asked .
and perhaps after all it is for the best .
you know me then ?
how often ?
tell me helen said she have you ever heard anyone whistle in the dead of the night ?
a precious stone .
yes said holmes answering the look rather than the words .
the count shrugged his broad shoulders .
if not it shall never be seen by mortal eye and your secret whether you be alive or dead shall be safe with us .
if you can catch the man catch him and let me know when you have done it .
by eleven o clock the next day we were well upon our way to the old english capital .
i should be compelled to stop the night .
it is possible .
then perhaps holmes you will be good enough to explain how it is that i have received a letter from him .
i dropped my gun and held him in my arms but he almost instantly expired .
she was bound to have me in .
i lounged up the side aisle like any other idler who has dropped into a church .
he had remained with horner some little time but had finally been called away .
from what i have seen of the lady she seems indeed to be on a very different level to your majesty said holmes coldly .
i hear that it was during the night sir but it has got worse and the whole place is in a blaze .
that would suit me very well said i .
ah you look on these things from another standpoint .
he would see it through the ventilator .
his rooms were brilliantly lit and even as i looked up i saw his tall spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette against the blind .
hum !
he quietly shot back a panel in the upper part of the door and glanced through .
jabez wilson laughed heavily .
i had hoped suggested holmes that you would have joined us in a friendly supper .
no i know no one in these parts .
if the former she had probably transferred the photograph to his keeping .
i know that he has done no harm and that you will be sorry for having acted so harshly .
i panted .
to an english lawyer named norton .
there is a woodcock i believe .
we have already a clue .
that was last friday holmes and i have never seen or heard anything since then to throw any light upon what became of him .
my accomplishments sir may be less than you imagine said i .
through the gloom one could dimly catch a glimpse of bodies lying in strange fantastic poses bowed shoulders bent knees heads thrown back and chins pointing upward with here and there a dark eye turned upon the newcomer .
i sprang up and lit the lamp but nothing was to be seen in the room .
it must be bought .
mccarthy had one son a lad of eighteen and turner had an only daughter of the same age but neither of them had wives living .
you may set your mind at rest about that .
i knew that he would be true to me for i knew one or two things about him so i made up my mind to go right on to kilburn where he lived and take him into my confidence .
i think of writing another little monograph some of these days on the typewriter and its relation to crime .
i sponged the wound cleaned it dressed it and finally covered it over with cotton wadding and carbolised bandages .
the landlord of the alpha .
i am afraid holmes that you are not very practical with your deductions and your inferences .
because you have just as good a chance of finding this lady in the one as in the other .
with a nod he vanished into the bedroom whence he emerged in five minutes and respectable as of old .
could you swear to it ?
what could it be ?
here you are peterson run down to the advertising agency and have this put in the evening papers .
that is important .
that however was out of the question .
our party is complete said holmes buttoning up his and taking his heavy hunting crop from the rack .
if she can come to winchester to meet us she can get away .
that hurts my pride watson he said at last .
circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing answered holmes thoughtfully .
but here i picked up the morning paper from the ground let us put it to a practical test .
turning round we saw a little fellow standing in the centre of the circle of yellow light which was thrown by the swinging lamp while breckinridge the salesman framed in the door of his stall was shaking his fists fiercely at the cringing figure .
sherlock holmes sat silent for a few minutes with his fingertips still pressed together his legs stretched out in front of him and his gaze directed upward to the ceiling .
the band !
and be laughed at for my pains .
my opinion is in no way altered .
but will he see it ?
the year furnished us with a long series of cases of greater or less interest of which i retain the records .
and so you won t cut your hair ?
i was standing rapt in the peaceful beauty of the scene when i was aware that something was moving under the shadow of the copper beeches .
holmes had been buried in the morning papers all the way down but after we had passed the hampshire border he threw them down and began to admire the scenery .
i know some of them .
had there been women in the house i should have suspected a mere vulgar intrigue .
holmes chuckled and wriggled in his chair as was his habit when in high spirits .
this aroused my curiosity so when i went out for a walk in the grounds with my charge i strolled round to the side from which i could see the windows of this part of the house .
there was a long silence during which holmes leaned his chin upon his hands and stared into the crackling fire .
ah !
i will do it .
well she had a straw hat with a feather of a brickish red .
he came back alone for lestrade was staying in lodgings in the town .
i called in the inspector and gave him into custody .
i remember nothing until i found myself lying on my bed trembling all over .
xi .
it s worth quite a little fortune to any man who gets it and i understand that there are more vacancies than there are men so that the trustees are at their wits end what to do with the money .
is it not possible that his wife is a lunatic that he desires to keep the matter quiet for fear she should be taken to an asylum and that he humours her fancies in every way in order to prevent an outbreak ?
you ll have to go out .
you have been looking a little pale lately .
i endeavoured to tie my handkerchief round it but there came a sudden buzzing in my ears and next moment i fell in a dead faint among the .
i tried to puzzle it out but gave it up in despair and set the matter aside until night should bring an explanation .
pa thought i had a decline and took me to half the doctors in frisco .
he drew out a lens and lay down upon his waterproof to have a better view talking all the time rather to himself than to us .
ha ha my boy what do you make of that ?
ah bradstreet how are you ?
did you observe the colour ?
and yet he would always wind up by muttering that no sister of his should ever have accepted such a situation .
i should be immensely obliged to you .
what then ?
she cried in english remember your promise after the last time .
as we approached the door flew open and a little blonde woman stood in the opening clad in some sort of light mousseline de soie with a touch of fluffy pink chiffon at her neck and wrists .
by the time that their reaches savannah the will have carried this letter and the cable will have informed the police of savannah that these three gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder .
you must yourself have remarked how worn wrinkled and stained they were .
ah yes i recall the case it was concerned with an opal tiara .
he caught up a pen .
you have given orders that arthur should be liberated have you not dad ?
in the meantime merryweather we must put the screen over that dark lantern .
who would associate crime with these dear old homesteads ?
perhaps we had better proceed to business then said he .
he looked surprised and as it seemed to me a little startled at my remark .
my dear watson you as a medical man are continually gaining light as to the tendencies of a child by the study of the parents .
no i never heard of her using it .
at first it was but a lurid spark upon the stone pavement .
who could come ?
it is straight enough .
all right said holmes quietly .
i think watson that you have put on seven and a half pounds since i saw you .
you can see him very well .
well of course it was obvious from the first that this hosmer angel must have some strong object for his curious conduct and it was equally clear that the only man who really profited by the incident as far as we could see was the stepfather .
that is very awkward .
alas !
she hurried from the room as impulsively as she had entered and we heard the wheels of her carriage rattle off down the street .
you think so too ?
that carries us right on to the other block .
said he .
i shall glance into the case for you said holmes rising and i have no doubt that we shall reach some definite result .
that s it !
we must have a look at it .
some little time ago i bought a small place a very small place within ten miles of reading .
with making away with neville oh come you can t be charged with that unless they make a case of attempted suicide of it said the inspector with a grin .
yes it was twisted .
besides what use was my hair to me ?
the building was of grey stone with a high central portion and two curving wings like the claws of a crab thrown out on each side .
catherine cusack maid to the countess deposed to having heard ryder s cry of dismay on discovering the robbery and to having rushed into the room where she found matters as described by the last witness .
lord robert walsingham de vere simon second son of the duke of balmoral .
but what could it indicate ?
you did not tell me that you intended to go into harness .
i trust holder that you are nearing the end of your troubles .
look here watson he said when the cloth was cleared just sit down in this chair and let me preach to you for a little .
it seems from what i gather to be one of those simple cases which are so extremely difficult .
we had reached the same crowded thoroughfare in which we had found ourselves in the morning .
you know my methods .
then we had a talk as to what we should do and frank was all for openness but i was so ashamed of it all that i felt as if i should like to vanish away and never see any of them again just sending a line to pa perhaps to show him that i was alive .
i really wouldn t miss your case for the world .
he bowed me out of the room and i went home with my assistant hardly knowing what to say or do i was so pleased at my own good fortune .
nothing .
come cried the inspector laughing it s a very pretty diversity of opinion .
and that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the coronet cried holder .
i am very much afraid that it is not .
one of the most precious public possessions of the empire said i .
my friend smiled .
as you may observe holmes my hair is somewhat luxuriant and of a rather peculiar tint of chestnut .
well i have no connection with any other people who have been making inquiries said holmes carelessly .
he used to make merry over the cleverness of women but i have not heard him do it of late .
your own opinion is then that some unforeseen catastrophe has occurred to him ?
i fear not .
i have no idea what she meant .
i should not stay here .
then i ll tell our story right away said the lady .
why said my wife pulling up her veil it is kate whitney .
a lean man furtive and was waiting for us upon the platform .
and that is that mccarthy senior met his death from mccarthy junior and that all theories to the contrary are the merest moonshine .
there were no signs of violence no footmarks no robbery no record of strangers having been seen upon the roads .
sarasate plays at the james s hall this afternoon he remarked .
a large face seared with a thousand wrinkles burned yellow with the sun and marked with every evil passion was turned from one to the other of us while his eyes and his high thin fleshless nose gave him somewhat the resemblance to a fierce old bird of prey .
the word was no sooner out of my mouth than the whole crowd of spectators well dressed and ill gentlemen ostlers and servant maids joined in a general shriek of fire !
i should like a few particulars as to this young lady and your relations to her .
that is unusual in a young girl .
quite so at the where as i understand turner made his money .
he was removed loudly protesting to the while the inspector remained upon the premises in the hope that the ebbing tide might afford some fresh clue .
do you go out much in society ?
there was nothing in the office but a couple of wooden chairs and a deal table behind which sat a small man with a head that was even redder than mine .
as i descended my old ally the guard came out of the room and closed the door tightly behind him .
find what i owe watson .
there was the point from which all my adventures started .
a man entered who could hardly have been less than six feet six inches in height with the chest and limbs of a hercules .
i was amused by her society and she could see that i was amused .
you doubt its value ?
the family was at one time among the richest in england and the estates extended over the borders into berkshire in the north and hampshire in the west .
and there is a little reward i fancy .
don t you see that the converse is equally valid .
a nice little brougham and a pair of beauties .
you have neither of you any doubt as to your son s guilt ?
ah but i sleep more heavily than you .
as he reached the corner of goodge street a row broke out between this stranger and a little knot of roughs .
said my wife looking across at me .
by the way there does not seem to be any very pressing need for repairs at that end wall .
i understand that you have already managed several delicate cases of this sort sir though i presume that they were hardly from the same class of society .
then you think that the serpentine plays no part in the matter ?
i think that i have seen enough now miss stoner and with your permission we shall walk out upon the lawn .
he mumbled several words you understand but that was all that caught the son s ear .
i went down to the albert dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the early tide this morning homeward bound to savannah .
it was the bisulphate of baryta .
the son as far as he knew was in bristol .
great lord of mercy !
my friend insisted upon my accompanying them in their expedition which i was eager enough to do for my curiosity and sympathy were deeply stirred by the story to which we had listened .
stolen !
what s in here ?
yes sir .
should it prove to be an interesting case you would i am sure wish to follow it from the outset .
the two mccarthys were seen after the time when william crowder the lost sight of them .
our cabs were dismissed and following the guidance of merryweather we passed down a narrow passage and through a side door which he opened for us .
oh yes mother is alive and well .
that is what lestrade of scotland yard looks upon as so serious .
or rather i fancy of that goose .
she sits in her own little office and the ladies who are seeking employment wait in an anteroom and are then shown in one by one when she consults her ledgers and sees whether she has anything which would suit them .
but he could not help me in any way .
i have already arranged what is to occur .
no sir becher is an englishman and there isn t a man in the parish who has a waistcoat .
my name is john robinson he answered with a sidelong glance .
that is what makes me uneasy .
and you are a benefactor of the race said he shrugged his shoulders .
and now a word as to my household holmes for i wish you to thoroughly understand the situation .
but what is the good of all these vague theories cried the banker impatiently when i have told you that i saw arthur with the coronet in his hands ?
but there is a cheetah and a baboon .
for an hour or more he was at work returning at last with his feet heavy with snow and his features as inscrutable as ever .
the group of trees with their dark leaves shining like burnished metal in the light of the setting sun were sufficient to mark the house even had miss hunter not been standing smiling on the .
pooh pooh !
the metallic clang heard by miss stoner was obviously caused by her stepfather hastily closing the door of his safe upon its terrible occupant .
well father was going off to france again in a week and hosmer wrote and said that it would be safer and better not to see each other until he had gone .
there s a scoundrel !
how are you getting on ?
the boscombe valley mystery we were seated at breakfast one morning my wife and i when the maid brought in a telegram .
and why in hopes ?
i should much prefer to have it so said he raising up a square black morocco case which he had laid beside his chair .
our reserve of bullion is much larger at present than is usually kept in a single branch office and the directors have had misgivings upon the subject .
jabez wilson started up in his chair with his forefinger upon the paper but his eyes upon my companion .
the initials were of course of the highest importance but more valuable still was it to know that within a week he had settled his bill at one of the most select london hotels .
what could that mean ?
it was a wonderfully silent house .
indeed !
to me at least there was a strange contrast between the sweet promise of the spring and this sinister quest upon which we were engaged .
for you merryweather the stake will be some and for you jones it will be the man upon whom you wish to lay your hands .
it is a murder then ?
and above all take care of yourself in the meanwhile for i do not think that there can be a doubt that you are threatened by a very real and imminent danger .
do you understand ?
the light flashed upon the barrel of a revolver but holmes hunting crop came down on the man s wrist and the pistol clinked upon the stone floor .
what do you mean ?
the passage outside was empty .
you forget that i know nothing about it .
i had not an idea who you were when you came in .
my friend rose lazily from his armchair and stood with his hands in the pockets of his looking over my shoulder .
a thousand things come back to me which make me certain that you have hit it .
and it is that miss flora millar the lady who had caused the disturbance has actually been arrested .
my room at the cedars is a one .
there are not many in london which charge at that rate .
i shall probably wish to go over the outside of the house again .
it was a few weeks before my own marriage during the days when i was still sharing rooms with holmes in baker street that he came home from an afternoon stroll to find a letter on the table waiting for him .
oh it is a matter of no importance but i don t know why you should be so warm over such a trifle .
and i say east said my patient .
xii .
the king of scandinavia .
so much is fairly clear .
the front room was plainly furnished as a and led into a small bedroom which looked out upon the back of one of the wharves .
from outside came the occasional cry of a and once at our very window a long drawn catlike whine which told us that the cheetah was indeed at liberty .
i had been delayed at a case and it was a little after six when i found myself in baker street once more .
i did it holmes .
then the fact that the two men were never together but that the one always appeared when the other was away was suggestive .
she is my right hand .
the smarting of it recalled in an instant all the particulars of my night s adventure and i sprang to my feet with the feeling that i might hardly yet be safe from my pursuers .
my dear holmes !
is briony lodge serpentine avenue john s wood .
he would not go to the police and he would not go to you and so at last as he would do nothing and kept on saying that there was no harm done it made me mad and i just on with my things and came right away to you .
it is equally certain too that whatever her sins are they will soon receive a more than sufficient punishment .
there is no other said i but the papers must be those that are destroyed .
without however the knowledge of cases which serves me so well .
it was empty .
in the first place i may say that i have met on the whole with no actual from and rucastle .
yes sir !
no .
i can do nothing for myself .
i can not possibly leave until i have seen the machine .
oh merely a couple of hundred a year but the work is slight and it need not interfere very much with one s other occupations .
swiftly i threw off my clothes pulled on those of a beggar and put on my pigments and wig .
i never went wrong before !
he asked .
sherlock holmes looked deeply chagrined .
may we bring him in marm ?
said she .
it s a new patient he whispered .
did you fasten all the windows ?
i suppose there would be no chance of a train back .
he had for years been known as a professional beggar but his life appeared to have been a very quiet and innocent one .
he asked with a deep harsh voice and a strongly marked german accent .
pray wait until you have recovered yourself and then i shall be most happy to look into any little problem which you may submit to me .
if so much may have happened between .
but the gems holmes .
his manner was brisk and yet his general appearance gave an undue impression of age for he had a slight forward stoop and a little bend of the knees as he walked .
have you ever observed that his ears are pierced for earrings ?
holmes the scotland yard !
if that were true the murderer must have dropped some part of his dress presumably his overcoat in his flight and must have had the hardihood to return and to carry it away at the instant when the son was kneeling with his back turned not a dozen paces off .
you were chosen doubtless as resembling her in height figure and the colour of your hair .
he was much excited without either his gun or his hat and his right hand and sleeve were observed to be stained with fresh blood .
we have come now out of mere vagueness to the definite conception of an australian from ballarat with a grey cloak .
now let me just run over the course of events and you will contradict me if i go wrong .
of course you are .
that is the true story gentlemen of all that occurred .
i have given you all the facts .
oh a few minutes .
you ll never persuade me to believe that .
god keep you out of the clutches of such a man as he .
it seemed strange talk for a but what has happened since gives a meaning to it .
i nodded to show that i had heard .
it is nearly five now .
the photograph was of irene adler herself in evening dress the letter was superscribed to sherlock holmes esq .
none save my partner with his family and an occasional friend of arthur s .
the man who entered was young some at the outside and trimly clad with something of refinement and delicacy in his bearing .
there was a moment s delay but the gentleman in the pew handed it up to her again and it did not appear to be the worse for the fall .
he slipped his key into the lock and we all very quietly entered the cell .
philosophy astronomy and politics were marked at zero i remember .
you have been of material assistance to me .
witness i was so disturbed and excited as i rushed out into the open that i could think of nothing except of my father .
still i confess that i miss my rubber .
for many years he had adopted a system of docketing all paragraphs concerning men and things so that it was difficult to name a subject or a person on which he could not at once furnish information .
i should like to know who sold you the geese which you supplied to the alpha .
his whole life appears to be spent in an alternation between savage fits of passion and gloomy intervals of sulking .
that is enough .
you see it ?
it is just as well that we should do business with the male relatives .
for goodness sake don t you ever on any pretext set your foot over the threshold at night for it s as much as your life is worth .
holmes stuck his feet up on the corner of the mantelpiece and leaning back with his hands in his pockets began talking rather to himself as it seemed than to us .
i wish to the lord that i had shot him then but i spared him though i saw his wicked little eyes fixed on my face as though to remember every feature .
we have a drive before us .
this man has written the name and there has then been a pause before he wrote the address which can only mean that he was not familiar with it .
well moonshine is a brighter thing than fog said holmes laughing .
might not the nature of the injuries reveal something to my medical instincts ?
if there s business over this you ll remember that i was the one that stood your friend and that i was miss alice s friend too .
yes i shall not feel easy until i have told my story .
as he spoke the gleam of the sidelights of a carriage came round the curve of the avenue .
he drew up his chair very close to mine and began to stare at me again with the same questioning and thoughtful look .
i fear that i bore you with these details but i have to let you see my little difficulties if you are to understand the situation .
all the way there every man i met seemed to me to be a policeman or a detective and for all that it was a cold night the sweat was pouring down my face before i came to the brixton road .
the incident however was too trivial to relate and can have no possible bearing upon the case .
what can you gather from this old battered felt ?
his eyes sparkled and he sent up a great blue triumphant cloud from his cigarette .
in two hours we must be on the scene of action .
getting a vacancy did not seem to be such a very easy matter after all .
it is of importance .
my father had fallen over one of the deep which abound in the neighbourhood and was lying senseless with a shattered skull .
well the temptation of sudden wealth so easily acquired was too much for you as it has been for better men before you but you were not very scrupulous in the means you used .
and you think that they brought you back all that way when you were unconscious ?
she held up one shaking finger to warn me to be silent and she shot a few whispered words of broken english at me her eyes glancing back like those of a frightened horse into the gloom behind her .
her light grey eyes wandered continually from one to the other noting every little want and forestalling it if possible .
from time to time i heard some vague account of his doings of his summons to odessa in the case of the trepoff murder of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the atkinson brothers at trincomalee and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for the reigning family of holland .
i congratulate you warmly .
it grew broader and a woman appeared with a lamp in her hand which she held above her head pushing her face forward and peering at us .
on examining it however i found that this deposit was a comparatively small one and that it formed a link between two very much larger ones upon the right and left both of them however in the grounds of my neighbours .
sherlock holmes was transformed when he was hot upon such a scent as this .
we have been on a friendly footing for some years i may say on a very friendly footing .
then he stepped into the cab and in half an hour we were back in the at baker street .
asked arthur .
quite so .
i was sure that i might rely on you .
and has your business been attended to in your absence ?
and i say peterson just buy a goose on your way back and leave it here with me for we must have one to give to this gentleman in place of the one which your family is now devouring .
at one side of the coronet was a cracked edge where a corner holding three gems had been torn away .
oh he gives no trouble .
i should be very glad now to go upstairs said he .
i pray that we may never be exposed to such a temptation .
i have just been looking through all the recent papers in order to master the particulars .
oh yes .
that the man was highly intellectual is of course obvious upon the face of it and also that he was fairly within the last three years although he has now fallen upon evil days .
at eleven o clock she rose to leave me but she paused at the door and looked back .
no no .
it was lost if i remember aright at the hotel cosmopolitan i remarked .
what a woman oh what a woman !
i saw no one near my father when i returned and i have no idea how he came by his injuries .
this is no time for despair .
i was afraid that you were engaged .
let me out !
i laid the two tresses together and i assure you that they were identical .
that s no good .
it was nearly ten o clock before he entered looking pale and worn .
what papers ?
mr .
on examination traces of blood were to be seen upon the windowsill and several scattered drops were visible upon the wooden floor of the bedroom .
making our way among the trees we reached the lawn crossed it and were about to enter through the window when out from a clump of laurel bushes there darted what seemed to be a hideous and distorted child who threw itself upon the grass with writhing limbs and then ran swiftly across the lawn into the darkness .
holmes !
this photograph !
its outrages were usually preceded by a warning sent to the marked man in some fantastic but generally recognised shape a sprig of in some parts melon seeds or orange pips in others .
the portly client puffed out his chest with an appearance of some little pride and pulled a dirty and wrinkled newspaper from the inside pocket of his greatcoat .
hosmer came for us in a hansom but as there were two of us he put us both into it and stepped himself into a which happened to be the only other cab in the street .
the grey pavement had been cleaned and scraped but was still dangerously slippery so that there were fewer passengers than usual .
the name was strange to him .
now if you are well up in your london you will know that the office of the company is in fresno street which branches out of upper swandam lane where you found me .
all my medical instincts rose up against that laugh .
what do you deduce from it ?
as she spoke a light sprang into view at the further end of the passage and i saw the lean figure of colonel lysander stark rushing forward with a lantern in one hand and a weapon like a butcher s cleaver in the other .
across his lap lay the short stock with the long lash which we had noticed during the day .
i asked .
i shall not say another word about this business since you have chosen to insult me .
i have the honour to wish you a very good morning .
he moved out yesterday .
all day a stream of pennies varied by silver poured in upon me and it was a very bad day in which i failed to take .
it was sheer frenzy of this sort which made him throw his hands up into the air when his father at their last interview was goading him on to propose to miss turner .
does not that strike you ?
but the instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune this would be for you and how it was to set it right .
i had gone up to town about an investment and i met him in regent street with hardly a coat to his back or a boot to his foot .
what can you gather yourself as to the individuality of the man who has worn this article ?
of course i did not mind you so much as you are not connected with the official police but it is not pleasant to have a family misfortune like this noised abroad .
i ll swear it on a bible .
turner had a considerable household some at the least .
the same porter was on duty i found as had been there when i arrived .
under these circumstances the young man was instantly arrested and a verdict of wilful murder having been returned at the inquest on tuesday he was on wednesday brought before the magistrates at ross who have referred the case to the next assizes .
he took up the paper in a listless way but his attention instantly became riveted and he gave a little cry of satisfaction .
victor hatherley hydraulic engineer victoria street floor .
none .
i do not think flora would hurt a fly .
the chances are that she would be as averse to its being seen by godfrey norton as our client is to its coming to the eyes of his princess .
said he with something of a german accent .
it was i found that i had my man so i came home and changed my clothes .
was the photograph a cabinet ?
yes .
for a while he could not get his words out but swayed his body and plucked at his hair like one who has been driven to the extreme limits of his reason .
his brain is as cunning as his fingers and though we meet signs of him at every turn we never know where to find the man himself .
i have no doubt that i am very stupid but i must confess that i am unable to follow you .
with him we drove to the hereford arms where a room had already been engaged for us .
it has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important .
that however i shall determine by a very simple test if we have an answer to our advertisement .
why should i slink away without having carried out my commission and without the payment which was my due ?
that the writer was on board of a ship .
the thought had hardly flashed through my mind before he was at the door pushing his way past her but she threw her arms round him and tried to hold him back .
perhaps the villain was softened by the woman s entreaties .
we have certainly been favoured with extraordinary luck during this inquiry and it will be entirely our own fault if we do not succeed in clearing the matter up .
there s never very much to do of a morning .
i took it up and examined it .
when roylott was in india he married my mother stoner the young widow of stoner of the bengal artillery .
i am all impatience to be gone .
the official detective was attired in a and cravat which gave him a decidedly nautical appearance and he carried a black canvas bag in his hand .
it may be some time before i get back .
she is .
when he breathed his vows to her as he had done to a hundred before her she flattered herself that she alone had touched his heart .
if you can do nothing better than laugh at me i can go elsewhere .
it is really two days since you had the letter .
sir george burnwell tried to get away but arthur caught him and there was a struggle between them your lad tugging at one side of the coronet and his opponent at the other .
his face set hard and a baleful light sprang up in his grey eyes .
you will first make a note doctor of the paper and the date .
perhaps it was thoughtless of me to say so .
i told him that we would give him a price for the stones he held apiece .
she was flattered by the gentleman s attentions and the effect was increased by the loudly expressed admiration of her mother .
it is a hereditary matter so in order to give you an idea of the facts i must go back to the commencement of the affair .
they were admirable things for the observer excellent for drawing the veil from men s motives and actions .
the fire looks very seasonable in this weather .
the matter was perfectly simple .
it must then be something out of the house .
an important addition has been made during the last week to the list of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming invaders .
i am sorry that miss sutherland has troubled you about this little matter for i think it is far better not to wash linen of the sort in public .
what else can be indicated by that right cuff so very shiny for five inches and the left one with the smooth patch near the elbow where you rest it upon the desk ?
pray proceed .
he throws it out and would have done the same with the other garments had not he heard the rush of steps below and only just had time to close the window when the police appeared .
but the maiden herself was most instructive .
was dressed in etc .
except yourself i have none he answered .
you have worked with it and the muscles are more developed .
never mind said holmes laughing it is my business to know things .
sherlock holmes was already at breakfast when i came down .
what s up then ?
where to ?
that is also quite modern said the lady .
he investigated the case with great care for roylott s conduct had long been notorious in the county but he was unable to find any satisfactory cause of death .
and when will you call ?
it is quite separate and was left me by my uncle ned in auckland .
god bless you !
a mad unreasoning terror rose up in me at the sight holmes .
yes .
whose then ?
yes it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so .
how could anyone offer so pitiful a sum to a lady with such attractions and accomplishments ?
it was pitch dark inside the house and the colonel fumbled about looking for matches and muttering under his breath .
he received us in his quietly genial fashion ordered fresh rashers and eggs and joined us in a hearty meal .
she had written in a hurry and dipped her pen too deep .
why ?
but i am inclined to think neither .
faces to the south then and quick march !
we must be circumspect for we are dealing with a very cunning man .
still if i had married lord simon of course i d have done my duty by him .
he tried more than once to break away from the dangerous company which he was keeping but each time the influence of his friend sir george burnwell was enough to draw him back again .
a gentleman entered with a pleasant cultured face and pale with something perhaps of petulance about the mouth and with the steady eye of a man whose pleasant lot it had ever been to command and to be obeyed .
he brought round both hat and goose to me on christmas morning knowing that even the smallest problems are of interest to me .
said he .
of all these varied cases however i can not recall any which presented more singular features than that which was associated with the surrey family of the roylotts of stoke moran .
i do not mean that any beggar in the streets of london could earn a year which is less than my average takings but i had exceptional advantages in my power of making up and also in a facility of repartee which improved by practice and made me quite a recognised character in the city .
it would be injustice to hesitate said he .
you are the first who have ever heard my story .
as i passed the tall man who sat by the brazier i felt a sudden pluck at my skirt and a low voice whispered walk past me and then look back at me .
she used to be at the allegro .
i was inclined to think at one time that he knew who had done it and was screening him or her but i am convinced now that he is as puzzled as everyone else .
i thought that i would just ask you whether you had heard it .
but the note itself .
and no later than this morning .
in this sinister way i came into my inheritance .
he threw himself down upon his face with his lens in his hand and crawled swiftly backward and forward examining minutely the cracks between the boards .
the next instant i threw myself through and lay upon the other side .
i was up to the altar and before i knew where i was i found myself mumbling responses which were whispered in my ear and vouching for things of which i knew nothing and generally assisting in the secure tying up of irene adler spinster to godfrey norton bachelor .
he yelled .
we called at the door when the maid at holmes request showed us the boots which her master wore at the time of his death and also a pair of the son s though not the pair which he had then had .
see here .
you dragged them from the serpentine ?
here is the foresight said he putting his finger upon the little disc and loop of the .
but the reason is very obvious .
we live very quietly sir the three of us and we keep a roof over our heads and pay our debts if we do nothing more .
but i ll have a sovereign on with you just to teach you not to be obstinate .
no crime said sherlock holmes laughing .
it was from her that i had your address .
should you be fortunate enough to solve this problem said our client rising .
it was of the same peculiar tint and the same thickness .
i m sure i beg pardon .
if you choose to call the police let the police find what they can .
as if a man bent on felony would slam his door so as to wake a household .
clair is now years of age is a man of temperate habits a good husband a very affectionate father and a man who is popular with all who know him .
have they thought of looking outside the house ?
well look at this !
mary was the first to rush into my room and at the sight of the coronet and of arthur s face she read the whole story and with a scream fell down senseless on the ground .
your hands my dear sir .
for all the preposterous hat and the vacuous face there was something noble in the simple faith of our visitor which compelled our respect .
you shut up the windows and doors the night before .
precisely so .
my mind was soon made up .
he had no friends at all save the wandering gipsies and he would give these vagabonds leave to encamp upon the few acres of land which represent the family estate and would accept in return the hospitality of their tents wandering away with them sometimes for weeks on end .
i ejaculated .
it is past ten however and quite time that we started .
i had said he come to an entirely erroneous conclusion which shows my dear watson how dangerous it always is to reason from insufficient data .
you give me hopes ?
not him .
she had engaged a and our lunch awaited us upon the table .
the skylight above was open and the prisoner gone .
in answer to an advertisement .
if you find you can not take my advice my boy and leave it to your deadliest enemy .
you did not know where to look and so you missed all that was important .
but what will you do ?
she cried well ?
so i have heard .
then we have stopped all the holes .
december .
it was a singular sight which met our eyes .
well then do you imagine that this other one henry baker had anything to do with the matter ?
but you see sir them s not our geese .
the paper was made in bohemia i said .
i could not live there longer without some advice .
you are not very vulnerable from above holmes remarked as he held up the lantern and gazed about him .
yes they have shown extraordinary energy .
i have never denied him a wish .
a vague feeling of impending misfortune impressed me .
i was keenly on my guard against him .
most certainly it does .
about sixty but his constitution has been shattered by his life abroad and he has been in failing health for some time .
i could not bear the disgrace .
must i call you a liar as well as a thief ?
that is the reward and i have reason to know that there are sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the gem .
they are all typewritten .
many people are improved by wearing it short and perhaps i should be among the number .
oakshott brixton road egg and poultry supplier .
and what do you think of it all watson ?
yours faithfully violet hunter .
the impression of his right foot was always less distinct than his left .
a single man could not have carried out two deaths in such a way as to deceive a coroner s jury .
a little french a little german music and drawing tut tut !
there s nothing in it .
if it had been written straight off and then blotted none would be of a deep black shade .
she stood with her figure outlined against the flood of light one hand upon the door one in her eagerness her body slightly bent her head and face protruded with eager eyes and parted lips a standing question .
let us thrust this creature back into its den and we can then remove miss stoner to some place of shelter and let the county police know what has happened .
they were all three standing in a knot in front of the altar .
she has the face of the most beautiful of women and the mind of the most resolute of men .
i have lost my thumb and i have lost a fee and what have i gained ?
it drove me mad to think that i and all that i held most dear should be in the power of such a man as this .
boscombe valley is a country district not very far from ross in herefordshire .
what is this then ?
and how in the world did you find them ?
it may well have been cause and effect .
it was instantly opened by a young fellow who asked him to step in .
that was the name style and abode of my morning visitor .
is he not a beauty ?
by the way about the bird we were compelled to eat it .
it is so dreadful to think of our dear arthur in prison !
what !
may i ask where you live sir ?
yes and a most remarkable bird it proved .
i knew that we should find a ventilator before ever we came to stoke moran .
he rummaged amid his newspapers glancing over the dates until at last he smoothed one out doubled it over and read the following paragraph hotel cosmopolitan jewel robbery .
and now there is only she to be described .
i was leaning against the wall at the time and looking at the geese which were waddling about round my feet and suddenly an idea came into my head which showed me how i could beat the best detective that ever lived .
this child s disposition is abnormally cruel merely for cruelty s sake and whether he derives this from his smiling father as i should suspect or from his mother it bodes evil for the poor girl who is in their power .
however innocent he might be he could not be such an absolute imbecile as not to see that the circumstances were very black against him .
i was isa whitney s medical adviser and as such i had influence over him .
come this way if you please .
then dress .
and on the morning of the wedding ?
the law can not as you say touch you said holmes unlocking and throwing open the door yet there never was a man who deserved punishment more .
i had not gone more than yards however when i heard a hideous outcry behind me which caused me to run back again .
oh he will be silent !
i assure you that it has not detracted in the tiniest iota from your appearance .
my photograph .
a double with a lawn stretched down in front to two large iron gates which closed the entrance .
the name is familiar to me said he .
i hardened my heart and took the from under my ulster .
yes it is correct as far as it goes .
you won t shake hands before i go ?
it is an old trick .
i see said i as i glanced down the column that the coroner in his concluding remarks was rather severe upon young mccarthy .
on receiving this the victim might either openly abjure his former ways or might fly from the country .
every shade of colour they were straw lemon orange brick liver clay but as spaulding said there were not many who had the real vivid tint .
then as to money ?
hold it up to the light .
chubb lock to the door .
where were we going and what were we to do ?
most of his time he would spend in his room with the door locked upon the inside but sometimes he would emerge in a sort of drunken frenzy and would burst out of the house and tear about the garden with a revolver in his hand screaming out that he was afraid of no man and that he was not to be cooped up like a sheep in a pen by man or devil .
with a few grateful words to holmes she bade us both and bustled off upon her way .
the man sat for a minute or more with a heaving chest fighting against his emotion .
in the road stood our horse and trap with the waiting at the head .
problems may be solved in the study which have baffled all those who have sought a solution by the aid of their senses .
thank you .
i should like however to understand a little more clearly what it is that you wish me to do .
and miss sutherland ?
as i gave a last hurried glance around i saw a thin line of yellow light between two of the boards which broadened and broadened as a small panel was pushed backward .
it is very clear .
i rushed towards it and pulled at the handle but it was quite secure and did not give in the least to my kicks and shoves .
i am sure .
i stared at it not knowing what was about to issue from it .
slowly and solemnly he was borne into briony lodge and laid out in the principal room while i still observed the proceedings from my post by the window .
it has been in some points a singular case said holmes flicking the horse on into a gallop .
you quite follow me ?
certainly sir said baker who had risen and tucked his newly gained property under his arm .
not in the least .
we know something of square .
who are you ?
it was an old rickety door and gave at once before our united strength .
i thought however that before taking the final step i should like to submit the whole matter to your consideration .
no it is not even attached to a wire .
but your client never mind him .
fowler .
that is very interesting .
colonel !
that is easily done .
it must have been he who wore those boots and retained the missing gems .
i don t know quite what to do and i should value your advice .
is toller still drunk ?
oh heaven bless you !
but why are you not conducting the case from baker street ?
you look at these scattered houses and you are impressed by their beauty .
i have it from the same source that you are both an orphan and a bachelor and are residing alone in london .
and he said that i had nothing fit to wear when i had my purple plush that i had never so much as taken out of the drawer .
why should they give you a year when they could have their pick for ?
our visitor glanced with some apparent surprise at the languid lounging figure of the man who had been no doubt depicted to him as the most incisive reasoner and most energetic agent in europe .
this is the envelope he continued .
if you would have the great kindness to get rid of that sottish friend of yours i should be exceedingly glad to have a little talk with you .
we have retained these things for some days said holmes because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your address .
he was a man of about fifty tall portly and imposing with a massive strongly marked face and a commanding figure .
as i entered a sallow malay attendant had hurried up with a pipe for me and a supply of the drug beckoning me to an empty berth .
i assured him that i was not offended .
it was in the summer of not long after my marriage that the events occurred which i am now about to summarise .
she kept talking of what we should do in our future lives .
data !
ha !
oh just as you like said she a little huffed .
that is toller in the cellar said she .
said vincent spaulding .
i do not know that there is anything else for me to explain .
i would have spoken now had it not been for my dear girl .
bring him into the .
i came to baker street by the underground and hurried from there on foot for the cabs go slowly through this snow .
you look cold ryder .
i am going right on .
i did not care to spend more money in a hopeless attempt at recovering them .
very murderous indeed .
it was not merely that holmes changed his costume .
it may stop his gossip .
if his purpose were innocent why did he not say so ?
kindly sign the paper where fordham shows you .
i think that this should do said he glancing into the glass above the fireplace .
but we have to be careful for we have twice been deceived by wigs and once by paint .
half dazed i went into the station and asked about the morning train .
why did you pick him ?
you have already imperilled the whole success of our expedition .
i know it and i want you to start upon your work knowing it too .
i came to you sir because i heard of you from etherege whose husband you found so easy when the police and everyone had given him up for dead .
this fellow will not go wrong again he is too terribly frightened .
asked sherlock holmes leaning back in his chair .
i am sorry to knock you up so early doctor said he but i have had a very serious accident during the night .
i say a night s work but an hour s would be nearer the mark .
let me introduce you to merryweather who is to be our companion in s adventure .
yes and i have no doubt that is her ring .
said holmes sinking back in deep thought .
arthur does .
on the table stood a with the shutter half open throwing a brilliant beam of light upon the iron safe the door of which was ajar .
the coroner did your father make any statement to you before he died ?
i shall expect you then at eyford at .
that is not always so easy .
why what on earth does this mean john ?
i think that there was probably some more tangible cause .
it may be so or it may not holmes said he but if you are so very sharp you ought to be sharp enough to know that it is you who are breaking the law now and not me .
for an instant i could hardly believe that here was indeed a door which led away from death .
the photograph is in a recess behind a sliding panel just above the right .
not the countess of morcar s blue carbuncle !
and my son ?
if you show us what is wrong we shall soon set it right ourselves .
and this stone ?
mrs .
simon .
and i to find an enemy .
turner was apparently the richer man so mccarthy became his tenant but still remained it seems upon terms of perfect equality as they were frequently together .
and now ?
we shall endeavour to clear up these points for you .
pray make no apology to me said lord simon bitterly .
what can he hope to find there ?
yes all .
it seems absurdly simple and yet somehow i can get nothing to go upon .
the gas was half up as i had left it and my unhappy boy dressed only in his shirt and trousers was standing beside the light holding the coronet in his hands .
threatens to send them the photograph .
his nostrils seemed to dilate with a purely animal lust for the chase and his mind was so absolutely concentrated upon the matter before him that a question or remark fell unheeded upon his ears or at the most only provoked a quick impatient snarl in reply .
those are the main facts of the case as they came out before the coroner and the .
that will do wilson .
the tip had been cut off not bitten off but the cut was not a clean one so i deduced a blunt .
oh fresh and glossy .
i am to remain neutral to get near the window to watch you and at the signal to throw in this object then to raise the cry of fire and to wait you at the corner of the street .
a husband s cruelty to his wife .
pray take a seat .
it is high but it may be that you can jump it .
he was i take it the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen but as a lover he would have placed himself in a false position .
sherlock holmes sprang out of his chair as if he had been galvanised .
the commissionaire plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of us .
evidence of a previous conviction for robbery having been given against the prisoner the magistrate refused to deal summarily with the offence but referred it to the assizes .
they are all seaports .
i will sit on the side of the bed and you in that chair .
his grip has been upon me these twenty years and he has blasted my life .
was he the only applicant ?
p of course stands for papier .
but it is profoundly true .
the doctors examined her for it but without success .
he gathered up the garments thrust them into the bag and made for the door .
yes our little place is quite out in the country .
well really it seems rather useless since you refuse the most excellent offers in this fashion said she sharply .
no no nothing of the kind .
you seem to me to have acted all through this matter like a very brave and sensible girl miss hunter .
cried my patient .
they are typewritten i remarked .
yes at the mines .
i have nothing to do .
how do you go back ?
iii .
in the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door so he rose and looking out was surprised to see his cousin walking very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your .
i have had one or two little scores of my own to settle with john clay said holmes .
he has every requirement .
in that case i think that it is probable that no further steps may be taken .
i answered .
i am afraid that my colleague has been a little quick in forming his conclusions he said .
his chin was cocked upward and his eyes were fixed in a dreadful rigid stare at the corner of the ceiling .
wait in neville .
this man however was leaning against the railings which bordered our field and was looking earnestly up .
i asked glancing at a remarkable brilliant which sparkled upon his finger .
suddenly my eyes caught the glint of a light .
he wanted her to sign a paper so that whether she married or not he could use her money .
ii .
you may remember the old persian saying there is danger for him who taketh the tiger cub and danger also for whoso snatches a delusion from a woman .
he laughed until he choked and we got a knife and opened the goose .
what of this cooee !
he said that he had never heard of any such body .
sir i can stand this strain no longer i shall go mad if it continues .
i know that clerks are sometimes curious as to their master s affairs .
he cried .
a jagged stone was lying among the moss and this also he carefully examined and retained .
inspector bradstreet sir .
a formidable array of bottles and with the pungent cleanly smell of hydrochloric acid told me that he had spent his day in the chemical work which was so dear to him .
and yet i question sir whether in all your experience you have ever listened to a more mysterious and inexplicable chain of events than those which have happened in my own family .
well you can ask the king of proosia for all i care .
there is a drive then ?
he has come back and done it .
the bedroom window was a broad one and opened from below .
the adds that within a few minutes of his seeing mccarthy pass he had seen his son james mccarthy going the same way with a gun under his arm .
come on my boy and we shall see whether it will not fit the lock .
i had expected to see sherlock holmes impatient under this rambling and inconsequential narrative but on the contrary he had listened with the greatest concentration of attention .
how very absurd !
the injuries were such as might very well have been inflicted by the of his son s gun which was found lying on the grass within a few paces of the body .
it becomes a personal matter with me now and if god sends me health i shall set my hand upon this gang .
then i walked across to the window hoping that i might catch some glimpse of the but an oak shutter heavily barred was folded across it .
but that my girl should be entangled in the same meshes which held me was more than i could suffer .
he looked from one to the other of us as if uncertain which to address .
here it is .
on the one hand of course i was glad for the fee was at least tenfold what i should have asked had i set a price upon my own services and it was possible that this order might lead to other ones .
windibank sprang out of his chair and picked up his hat .
mr .
clearly such a blow must have been struck from behind .
i begged a fortnight s grace from the creditor asked for a holiday from my employers and spent the time in begging in the city under my disguise .
written in pencil upon the of a book octavo size no .
my sister asked me what was the matter and why i was so pale but i told her that i had been upset by the jewel robbery at the hotel .
the name is no doubt familiar to you .
as he loved his cousin however there was an excellent explanation why he should retain her secret the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one .
a small side door led into the whitewashed corridor from which the three bedrooms opened .
thank god for that .
but that was not quite good enough holmes .
we have done a good deal in this direction during the last few years and there are many noble families to whom we have advanced large sums upon the security of their pictures libraries or plate .
now for the sinister cripple who lives upon the second floor of the opium den and who was certainly the last human being whose eyes rested upon neville clair .
i ll serve you !
the firemen had been much perturbed at the strange arrangements which they had found within and still more so by discovering a newly severed human thumb upon a of the second floor .
you must make allowance for this poor girl placed in so unprecedented a position .
the manageress had sat all this while busy with her papers without a word to either of us but she glanced at me now with so much annoyance upon her face that i could not help suspecting that she had lost a handsome commission through my refusal .
hum !
yours faithfully robert st .
he snatched it from her in his eagerness and smoothing it out upon the table he drew over the lamp and examined it intently .
it is not cold which makes me shiver said the woman in a low voice changing her seat as requested .
he took off his coat and waistcoat put on a large blue and then wandered about the room collecting pillows from his bed and cushions from the sofa and armchairs .
twice she has been waylaid .
frank had been a prisoner among the apaches had escaped came on to frisco found that i had given him up for dead and had gone to england followed me there and had come upon me at last on the very morning of my second wedding .
give him an arm back into his chair watson .
ha !
what do you make of that watson ?
it is just possible however that that also may not be wanting in this new investigation .
i took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the table .
i have no doubt that i am myself to blame .
proceed then .
oh if you say so jones it is all right said the stranger with deference .
then i shall drop you a line to let you know how we progress .
my wife is fond of a particular shade of electric blue and would like you to wear such a dress indoors in the morning .
might i beg that you would have the goodness to sit down upon one of those boxes and not to interfere ?
but fowler being a persevering man as a good seaman should be blockaded the house and having met you succeeded by certain arguments metallic or otherwise in convincing you that your interests were the same as his .
he said that if they were sent to the office he would be chaffed by all the other clerks about having letters from a lady so i offered to typewrite them like he did his but he wouldn t have that for he said that when i wrote them they seemed to come from me but when they were typewritten he always felt that the machine had come between us .
giving pain to any creature weaker than himself seems to be his one idea of amusement and he shows quite remarkable talent in planning the capture of mice little birds and insects .
he is dead cried several voices .
he rushes to some secret hoard where he has accumulated the fruits of his beggary and he stuffs all the coins upon which he can lay his hands into the pockets to make sure of the coat s sinking .
i seated myself in his armchair and warmed my hands before his crackling fire for a sharp frost had set in and the windows were thick with the ice crystals .
at first it seemed to be impossible but i soon devised a means .
she spoke a few words in a foreign tongue in a tone as though asking a question and when my companion answered in a gruff monosyllable she gave such a start that the lamp nearly fell from her hand .
on returning he found that horner had disappeared that the bureau had been forced open and that the small morocco casket in which as it afterwards transpired the countess was accustomed to keep her jewel was lying empty upon the .
i had the hint from holmes that this pawnbroker s assistant was a formidable man a man who might play a deep game .
it seems to me ryder that there is the making of a very pretty villain in you .
was meant to attract the attention of whoever it was that he had the appointment with .
oh yes easily .
did you tell him ?
i think that with your permission i will now wish you all a very .
she said nothing but i am convinced that she had divined that i had a mirror in my hand and had seen what was behind me .
obviously they have been caused by someone who has very carelessly scraped round the edges of the sole in order to remove crusted mud from it .
it is his hat .
lestrade !
here s half a crown .
and yet i believe that my eyes are as good as yours .
they were a gang and a rough one too .
to eyford in berkshire .
not particularly .
i have heard of you holmes i have heard of you from farintosh whom you helped in the hour of her sore need .
this is my friend watson .
the presence of the gipsies and the use of the word band which was used by the poor girl no doubt to explain the appearance which she had caught a hurried glimpse of by the light of her match were sufficient to put me upon an entirely wrong scent .
no said i considerably astonished at his words .
twice burglars in my pay ransacked her house .
and how ?
there is one thing said john openshaw .
such a charge is absurd to anyone who really knows him .
i think that there you ask a little too much responded his lordship .
it is this infernal simon marriage case .
it was minutes to twelve and of course it was clear enough what was in the wind .
you need not however go to the expense of purchasing one as we have one belonging to my dear daughter alice now in philadelphia which would i should think fit you very well .
no .
there are no further particulars and the whole case is in your hands now so far as it has been set forth in the public press .
it was no wonder that it had not been swept away by the tide .
when she wouldn t do it he kept on worrying her until she got and for six weeks was at death s door .
i felt however that when whitney was once confined in the cab my mission was practically accomplished and for the rest i could not wish anything better than to be associated with my friend in one of those singular adventures which were the normal condition of his existence .
all has turned out splendidly .
there are three hundred pounds in gold and seven hundred in notes he said .
but what then did the gipsies do ?
she had the surest information that of late he had when the fit was on him made use of an opium den in the farthest east of the city .
i would pay ten .
his extreme love of solitude in england suggests the idea that he was in fear of someone or something so we may assume as a working hypothesis that it was fear of someone or something which drove him from america .
at such times i have seen his face even on a cold day glisten with moisture as though it were new raised from a basin .
we never thought that she would have been so carried away .
at that hour we shall be with you and it will not be long before we solve the mystery .
i think that i mentioned to you that the doctor kept a cheetah and a baboon .
then i rather imprudently wished you and started for the temple to see my husband .
he stepped over to the window and shouted through it at the top of his voice that the vacancy was filled .
i should become the of scotland yard .
that is it on the .
undoubtedly .
in that case miss stoper i had best inspect a few more of your young ladies .
where are the jewels which you have stolen ?
at first of course he denied everything .
the inspector sat down at his desk .
then i thought of you holmes .
it may not come to that said holmes .
of course we still have the feathers legs crop and so on of your own bird so if you wish the man burst into a hearty laugh .
presently she emerged from the room again and in the light of the your son saw that she carried the precious coronet in her hands .
it was my coil of hair .
had i been recognised in that den my life would not have been worth an hour s purchase for i have used it before now for my own purposes and the rascally lascar who runs it has sworn to have vengeance upon me .
you shave every morning and in this season you shave by the sunlight but since your shaving is less and less complete as we get farther back on the left side until it becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the other .
from hatherley farmhouse to the boscombe pool is a quarter of a mile and two people saw him as he passed over this ground .
i shall take up as little of your valuable time as possible so i shall start at once upon my peculiar experiences .
some years ago to be definite in may there came to lee a gentleman neville clair by name who appeared to have plenty of money .
there can be no question as to their nature he answered .
i should be very much obliged if you would slip your revolver into your pocket .
that dreadful sentinel sent a chill to my heart which i do not think that any burglar could have done .
he asked .
it is my strong impression that i heard it and yet among the crash of the gale and the creaking of an old house i may possibly have been deceived .
to speak plainly the matter implicates the great house of ormstein hereditary kings of bohemia .
the table was set out ready for me and duncan ross was there to see that i got fairly to work .
you are all wrong .
frequently .
one other question said he .
there was no sign of any violence and the water was but two feet deep so that the jury having regard to his known eccentricity brought in a verdict of suicide .
now we can talk in safety .
i can t imagine .
hullo !
he was a small wiry sunburnt man with a sharp face and alert manner .
holmes ?
and then as a second thought why should she come at all ?
these flat brims curled at the edge came in then .
all this is amusing though rather elementary but i must go back to business watson .
it may seem to point very straight to one thing but if you shift your own point of view a little you may find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something entirely different .
ah of course .
but between ourselves windibank it was as cruel and selfish and heartless a trick in a petty way as ever came before me .
hers had been cut off very possibly in some illness through which she has passed and so of course yours had to be sacrificed also .
i did at first she answered but now i know where the letters are without looking .
you made some small job in my lady s room you and your confederate cusack and you managed that he should be the man sent for .
i could not help laughing at the ease with which he explained his process of deduction .
in the last century however four successive heirs were of a dissolute and wasteful disposition and the family ruin was eventually completed by a gambler in the days of the regency .
a broad wheal from an old scar ran right across it from eye to chin and by its contraction had turned up one side of the upper lip so that three teeth were exposed in a perpetual snarl .
well perhaps it is better that i should not tell you that just at this moment .
but if it were the maids why should your son allow himself to be accused in their place ?
his wife is a very tall and strong woman with a sour face as silent as rucastle and much less amiable .
very likely .
but it has twice been burgled .
sit down and let us talk it over .
holmes pushed open the door of the private bar and ordered two glasses of beer from the landlord .
it is a most mysterious business .
stolen then .
if he braved the matter out death would unfailingly come upon him and usually in some strange and unforeseen manner .
sold out of geese i see continued holmes pointing at the bare slabs of marble .
then angel began to call for it was obvious that the matter should be pushed as far as it would go if a real effect were to be produced .
she cried breathlessly .
at the second glance however i perceived that there was a man standing in the southampton road a small bearded man in a grey suit who seemed to be looking in my direction .
who was the criminal then ?
you must act man or you are lost .
there is a strong presumption that the person whom mccarthy expected to meet him at boscombe pool was someone who had been in australia .
i am sorry to hear you say that .
i shall go down to hampshire quite easy in my mind now .
when i have spun the web they may take the flies but not before .
do you note the peculiar construction of the sentence this account of you we have from all quarters received .
oh yes i sent him a couple of dozen .
great scott !
i have seen the police .
his boots his socks his hat and his watch all were there .
you suppose that your son came down from his bed went at great risk to your opened your bureau took out your coronet broke off by main force a small portion of it went off to some other place concealed three gems out of the with such skill that nobody can find them and then returned with the other into the room in which he exposed himself to the greatest danger of being discovered .
it is evident therefore that if both girls had married this beauty would have had a mere pittance while even one of them would cripple him to a very serious extent .
yours faithfully jephro rucastle .
d you see ?
away they went and i was just wondering whether i should not do well to follow them when up the lane came a neat little landau the coachman with his coat only and his tie under his ear while all the tags of his harness were sticking out of the buckles .
he followed me to my room however that night with a very grave face .
i am afraid so .
i am sure that you inquired your way merely in order that you might see him .
not yet .
i have some account of the matter here i believe .
the gentleman however seeing perhaps the look of incredulity upon my face opened a and took out a note .
this is more interesting than it promised to be quite dramatic in fact .
it had ceased ere i was wide awake but it had left an impression behind it as though a window had gently closed somewhere .
she rose briskly from her chair with the anxiety all swept from her face .
we found the brass box there although its contents had been destroyed .
holmes had sat up upon the couch and i saw him motion like a man who is in need of air .
d you think you know more about fowls than i who have handled them ever since i was a nipper ?
if you could send her into the cellar on some errand and then turn the key upon her you would facilitate matters immensely .
i should not be surprised if that were he .
just look it up then .
by degrees duncan ross took to coming in only once of a morning and then after a time he did not come in at all .
what are you going to do yourself ?
i have not come to stay said i .
for answer holmes clapped the hat upon his head .
i will explain the state of things to you as far as i have been able to understand it in a very few words .
to be left till called for .
he roared .
and yet this john openshaw seems to me to be walking amid even greater perils than did the sholtos .
there is the first volume of it in that press .
so much for the lascar manager .
you seem to expect company .
yet i have a vague impression that as i ran forward something lay upon the ground to the left of me .
the league i had called upon my friend sherlock holmes one day in the autumn of last year and found him in deep conversation with a very stout elderly gentleman with fiery red hair .
it was easy to see that she was passionately devoted both to her husband and to her little son .
no thank goodness she did not .
just a trifle more i fancy watson .
sherlock holmes was wrong in his conjecture however for there came a step in the passage and a tapping at the door .
data !
and watson he added as the wheels of the royal brougham rolled down the street .
but to whom ?
she told him of the coronet .
good god !
she responded beautifully .
there has been an enclosure here !
you will excuse my troubling you i am sure said she as my companion rose to greet her but i have had a very strange experience and as i have no parents or relations of any sort from whom i could ask advice i thought that perhaps you would be kind enough to tell me what i should do .
in each case not only are the e s slurred and the r s tailless but you will observe if you care to use my magnifying lens that the fourteen other characteristics to which i have alluded are there as well .
no .
that was it sir .
as to the letters he continued glancing over them they are very commonplace .
it is i think much more likely that henry baker is an absolutely innocent man who had no idea that the bird which he was carrying was of considerably more value than if it were made of solid gold .
i call him mine but really old toller my groom is the only man who can do anything with him .
it is a question of cubic capacity said he a man with so large a brain must have something in it .
what a week she must have spent !
come !
if his motives were innocent why does he not explain them ?
she is an american and came from california with her .
accustomed as i was to my friend s amazing powers in the use of disguises i had to look three times before i was certain that it was indeed he .
i am afraid that it is quite essential said he .
now it was clear to me that our lady of had nothing in the house more precious to her than what we are in quest of .
i walked down the narrow passage between the double row of sleepers holding my breath to keep out the vile stupefying fumes of the drug and looking about for the manager .
besides we may chance to hit upon some other obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to lestrade .
now would you have the kindness to go into your room and bar your shutters ?
only one man knew my secret .
he had turned his back so that none could see him but his form had filled out his wrinkles were gone the dull eyes had regained their fire and there sitting by the fire and grinning at my surprise was none other than sherlock holmes .
indeed i should have thought a little more .
a series of disgraceful brawls took place two of which ended in the until at last he became the terror of the village and the folks would fly at his approach for he is a man of immense strength and absolutely uncontrollable in his anger .
and my duties sir ?
we soothed and comforted her by such words as we could find .
arat i read .
he did tell me the address .
but what is this written above them ?
i have a professional commission for you but absolute secrecy is quite essential absolute secrecy you understand and of course we may expect that more from a man who is alone than from one who lives in the bosom of his family .
seldom goes out at other times except when she sings .
i felt angry at having been tricked by so elaborate a story as that which he had told me .
will you be ready ?
it was not mere curiosity though i have my share of that .
not in a good cause .
yes sir that is undoubtedly my hat .
the bride gave me a sovereign and i mean to wear it on my watch chain in memory of the occasion .
it is a petty feeling no doubt but it hurts my pride .
you will find it here and may read it for yourself .
yes .
all will come well .
charming rural place .
what an observant young lady we have come upon .
and let me say to you first that which it is hardest for me to say and for you to hear there has been an understanding between sir george burnwell and your niece mary .
i shall take your advice in every particular .
that fellow will rise from crime to crime until he does something very bad and ends on a gallows .
and brought miss hunter down from london in order to get rid of the disagreeable persistence of mr .
very much so .
i had no idea .
your duty would be as i am sure your good sense would suggest to obey any little commands my wife might give provided always that they were such commands as a lady might with propriety obey .
i left him then still puffing at his black clay pipe with the conviction that when i came again on the next evening i would find that he held in his hands all the clues which would lead up to the identity of the disappearing bridegroom of miss mary sutherland .
we ll call a cab and go together .
it is easy to see that your experience has been no common one hatherley said he .
that circle is drawn at a radius of ten miles from the village .
i soon managed to get the address of the receiver who had them on promising him that there would be no prosecution .
she died just two years ago and it is of her death that i wish to speak to you .
i can only claim the merit that i instantly reconsidered my position when however it became clear to me that whatever danger threatened an occupant of the room could not come either from the window or the door .
i know that her word is inviolate .
she smiled but there was no answering smile in holmes thin eager face .
if so how terrible would be the position in which i should find myself !
a married woman grabs at her baby an unmarried one reaches for her .
of what day ?
good heavens !
it must always be in the same relative position to the ventilator and to the rope or so we may call it since it was clearly never meant for a .
in his eyes she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex .
lestrade shrugged his shoulders .
better make it out for .
you put me off do you ?
there are rumours of foul play in the matter and it is said that the police have caused the arrest of the woman who had caused the original disturbance in the belief that from jealousy or some other motive she may have been concerned in the strange disappearance of the bride .
what was he doing there at all ?
so there were quarrels and this i am sure was one of them .
i was overwhelmed by the honour and attempted when he entered to say so but he plunged at once into business with the air of a man who wishes to hurry quickly through a disagreeable task .
lord simon who has shown himself for over twenty years proof against the little god s arrows has now definitely announced his approaching marriage with miss hatty doran the fascinating daughter of a california millionaire .
draw up a little to the fire and we will talk this matter over .
la scala hum !
was she in good spirits ?
fancy his having the insolence to confound me with the official detective force !
it is no wonder that it did not wake you .
oh you mean the little problem of the grosvenor square furniture van .
very good .
i tried to put on as unconcerned an air as possible but i had not forgotten the warnings of the lady even though i disregarded them and i kept a keen eye upon my two companions .
gasped the banker .
they laid me on a couch i motioned for air they were compelled to open the window and you had your chance .
that is the baboon .
there was no rest for me no peace no forgetfulness turn where i would there was his cunning grinning face at my elbow .
well and what happened when windibank your stepfather returned to france ?
its disappearance however was but momentary .
it is in new zealand stock paying per cent .
i thought it was his ghost at first but when i looked again there he was still with a kind of question in his eyes as if to ask me whether i were glad or sorry to see him .
what did you go into the pool for ?
they inherit plantagenet blood by direct descent and tudor on the distaff side .
capital !
it cost me something in foolscap and i had pretty nearly filled a shelf with my writings .
and rucastle were both downstairs and the child was with them so that i had an admirable opportunity .
the old man sank his face in his hands .
i was driven over by my employer who was as amiable as ever and was introduced by him that evening to his wife and the child .
something like fear sprang up in the young lady s expressive black eyes .
describe it .
then pray send him home in it .
o .
did you remark the postmarks of those letters ?
asked holmes .
but i understand that all the other clothes were found in the room .
then perhaps you will kindly explain how it is that we found this in it ?
there is not an instant to be lost .
ah here it is there will soon be a call for protection in the marriage market for the present principle appears to tell heavily against our home product .
and yet there was but one woman to him and that woman was the late irene adler of dubious and questionable memory .
i left the and as i ascended the stair i met him coming down with an old rusty key which must have belonged to the attic in one hand and a small brass box like a cashbox in the other .
but this time i was set on going and i would go for what right had he to prevent ?
i find it hard enough to tackle facts holmes without flying away after theories and fancies .
do you not see some loophole some flaw ?
there is a date you see but no superscription except leadenhall street which is rather vague .
i glanced down .
i shall stand behind this crate and do you conceal yourselves behind those .
i was recalled to myself by a frantic plucking at my wrist and i found myself lying upon the stone floor of a narrow corridor while a woman bent over me and tugged at me with her left hand while she held a candle in her right .
now from this double point our research must commence and we will begin it by presuming that what the lad says is absolutely true .
leave paddington by the .
i thought of the agonies i had gone through in coming from the hotel .
well then here on this page are the country folk and the numbers after their names are where their accounts are in the big ledger .
the sleeper half turned and then settled down once more into a deep slumber .
now let us consider the situation and see what may be deduced from it .
left his lodgings at ten o clock at night and has not been heard of since .
she cried glancing from one to the other of us and finally with a woman s quick intuition fastening upon my companion i am so glad that you have come .
i already regretted having ever consented to take charge of it .
that is as much as i have been able to gather about the families .
i asked .
i assure you that your little problem promises to be the most interesting which has come my way for some months .
will you come with me ?
with a boy s curiosity i have peeped through the keyhole but i was never able to see more than such a collection of old trunks and bundles as would be expected in such a room .
married !
nothing .
i shall look into the matter between this and then .
it was a beautiful moonlight night and the lawn in front of the house was silvered over and almost as bright as day .
i thought i d bring him round myself then he couldn t slip away .
the trap drove on and a few minutes later we saw a sudden light spring up among the trees as the lamp was lit in one of the .
your own little income he asked does it come out of the business ?
i shall just have time to tell you the facts of the case before we get to lee .
the door of briony lodge was open and an elderly woman stood upon the steps .
the fat man cast his eyes round and then up at the open skylight .
the alarm of fire was admirably done .
becher s .
i am still in the dark .
wait a little holder .
i had brought a pack of cards in my pocket and i thought that as we were a partie carrée you might have your rubber after all .
she is herself the very soul of delicacy .
i shall take nothing for granted until i have the opportunity of looking personally into it .
but pray tell me before we go farther who it is that i have the pleasure of assisting .
coarse writing murmured holmes .
i shall call with the king and with you if you care to come with us .
surely it would be better to take no notice .
but if you are found again then all must come out .
he has not been home for two days .
i believe that that is the village inn over there ?
we are close there now my friend remarked .
the lens discloses a large number of clean cut by the scissors of the barber .
it is very good of lord simon to honour my head by putting it on a level with his own said sherlock holmes laughing .
the method was no doubt suggested to clay s ingenious mind by the colour of his accomplice s hair .
as i have reason to believe however that the full facts have never been revealed to the general public and as my friend sherlock holmes had a considerable share in clearing the matter up i feel that no memoir of him would be complete without some little sketch of this remarkable episode .
and since you draw so large a sum as a hundred a year with what you earn into the bargain you no doubt travel a little and indulge yourself in every way .
now jabez wilson here has been good enough to call upon me this morning and to begin a narrative which promises to be one of the most singular which i have listened to for some time .
holmes rose and sat down at the table with his pen in his hand and a bundle of paper before him .
i fully share your opinion and i trust with you that we may prove it returned holmes going back to the mat to knock the snow from his shoes .
that is not quite so common is it ?
you had my note ?
ah yes .
fritz !
a shadow of a doubt as to my conduct would bring the matter to an end .
i wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter until some time later i backed a bill for a friend and had a writ served upon me for i was at my wit s end where to get the money but a sudden idea came to me .
he took the more chivalrous view however and preserved her secret .
but have you never been prosecuted for begging ?
when shall you be able to enter upon your new duties ?
you have him here ?
you can understand said holmes suavely that i extend to the affairs of my other clients the same secrecy which i promise to you in yours .
john swain cleared .
not at all .
many men have been hanged on far slighter evidence i remarked .
i cried with all the enthusiasm of a man fresh from the fogs of baker street .
again holmes raved in the air .
the man seemed surprised .
i advertised for him in last saturday s chronicle said she .
there was no slit through which a knife could be passed to raise the bar .
one moment holmes interposed your statement is i foresee one of the most remarkable to which i have ever listened .
then for god s sake what was this dark business which was acted in my house last night ?
then i seized my coat which was weighted by the coppers which i had just transferred to it from the leather bag in which i carried my takings .
is a week .
this morning he was removed to a cell and i after going through all the police formalities have hurried round to you to implore you to use your skill in unravelling the matter .
knowing that my wife would be terribly anxious i slipped off my ring and confided it to the lascar at a moment when no constable was watching me together with a hurried scrawl telling her that she had no cause to fear .
it was minutes past four .
she was a nonentity .
a juryman did you see nothing which aroused your suspicions when you returned on hearing the cry and found your father fatally injured ?
ferguson and i will take you up to see the machine .
he learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money on the turf until he had again and again to come to me and implore me to give him an advance upon his allowance that he might settle his debts of honour .
well i guess you have every cause to be .
i fancy that i hear his step now upon the stairs .
but i would rather not talk about the creature holmes and indeed he has little to do with my story .
only once some years ago .
then i rang the bell and as i hoped the assistant answered it .
wilson s assistant counts for a good deal in this mystery of the league .
or to sit here or sit there that would not be offensive to you ?
sherlock holmes had been leaning back in his chair with his eyes closed and his head sunk in a cushion but he half opened his lids now and glanced across at his visitor .
the name was indeed well known to us as belonging to the senior partner in the second largest private banking concern in the city of london .
perhaps you will have the kindness to wait in this room for a few minutes said he throwing open another door .
the story has i believe been told more than once in the newspapers but like all such narratives its effect is much less striking when set forth en bloc in a single of print than when the facts slowly evolve before your own eyes and the mystery clears gradually away as each new discovery furnishes a step which leads on to the complete truth .
excellent !
showing that she had struck a light and looked about her when the alarm took place .
i can not allow that there is any humiliation .
you can not say what it was ?
out there fell a cascade of children s bricks .
we had hardly reached the hall when we heard the baying of a hound and then a scream of agony with a horrible worrying sound which it was dreadful to listen to .
in mining .
ha !
i beg that you will look upon it not as a battered billycock but as an intellectual problem .
imagine then my thrill of terror when last night as i lay awake thinking over her terrible fate i suddenly heard in the silence of the night the low whistle which had been the herald of her own death .
was dressed when last seen in black faced with silk black waistcoat gold albert chain and grey harris tweed trousers with brown gaiters over boots .
when my dear wife died i felt that he was all i had to love .
oh sir do you not think that you could help me too and at least throw a little light through the dense darkness which surrounds me ?
as i dressed i glanced at my watch .
jephro said she there is an impertinent fellow upon the road there who stares up at miss hunter .
there have been two murders a a suicide and several robberies brought about for the sake of this weight of crystallised charcoal .
my name said he is john openshaw but my own affairs have as far as i can understand little to do with this awful business .
they did not know how to look .
in a fit of anger however caused by some robberies which had been perpetrated in the house he beat his native butler to death and narrowly escaped a capital sentence .
we were to meet at the pool midway between our houses to talk it over .
i fished about with a rake .
i think that i recognise the symptoms .
some of the blows of my cane came home and roused its snakish temper so that it flew upon the first person it saw .
my dear madam said i i am an old campaigner and if i were not i can very well see that no apology is needed .
i snatched it up and examined it .
i know that he is right .
one of them held the horse s head while the other led us in .
you did doctor but none the less you must come round to my view for otherwise i shall keep on piling fact upon fact on you until your reason breaks down under them and acknowledges me to be right .
when you go out close the door for there is a decided draught .
i am a dying man said old turner .
yes .
i knew that it was my sister s voice .
on the contrary said i i opened the door myself because i felt the room to be a little close .
already i was unable to stand erect when my eye caught something which brought a gush of hope back to my heart .
i can not see that there is anything very funny cried our client flushing up to the roots of his flaming head .
i know that all is well with him .
i ve had enough of it .
it would be a pity to miss it .
i trust that i am not intruding .
but a terrible change came over our stepfather about this time .
your cases have indeed been of the greatest interest to me i observed .
the unusual salary the curious conditions the light duties all pointed to something abnormal though whether a fad or a plot or whether the man were a philanthropist or a villain it was quite beyond my powers to determine .
he asked .
if this man ordered one it is a sign of a certain amount of foresight since he went out of his way to take this precaution against the wind .
you have a grand gift of silence watson said he .
i shall have this matter probed to the bottom .
his face was bent downward his shoulders bowed his lips compressed and the veins stood out like whipcord in his long sinewy neck .
i nodded again .
we were sitting there in silence when the door opened and a young lady came in .
miss stoner turned white to the lips as she listened .
he spoke calmly but i could see that he was deeply moved .
it had only lain there a few days .
some friend of yours perhaps ?
really !
your affection for arthur blinds you as to the awful consequences to me .
this american had started from london when he was young and he wanted to do the old town a good turn .
his letters were to be forwarded to gordon square so thither i travelled and being fortunate enough to find the loving couple at home i ventured to give them some paternal advice and to point out to them that it would be better in every way that they should make their position a little clearer both to the general public and to lord simon in particular .
i could however see that his face was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing .
how do i know that you have been getting yourself very wet lately and that you have a most clumsy and careless servant girl ?
her dress was brown rather darker than coffee colour with a little purple plush at the neck and sleeves .
very sorry to knock you up watson said he but it s the common lot this morning .
you must assert that in such words as will carry conviction with them .
i suppose that everyone finds his first independent start in business a dreary experience .
in short that she had become suddenly deranged ?
there is no vehicle save a which throws up mud in that way and then only when you sit on the side of the driver .
that is his main fault but on the whole he s a good worker .
i have hopes .
he s quicker at climbing down holes than i am .
but among them was sir george burnwell .
i know my dear watson that you share my love of all that is bizarre and outside the conventions and humdrum routine of everyday life .
my heart is lightened already since i have confided my trouble to you .
oh yes !
my name is sherlock holmes .
the machine goes readily enough but there is some stiffness in the working of it and it has lost a little of its force .
young mccarthy must be got off however .
what do you deduce from that ?
oh no .
there was a long silence broken only by his heavy breathing and by the measured tapping of sherlock holmes upon the edge of the table .
how on earth my dear fellow i know you well .
the small matter in which i endeavoured to help the king of bohemia the singular experience of miss mary sutherland the problem connected with the man with the twisted lip and the incident of the noble bachelor were all matters which are outside the pale of the law .
nothing could be more natural than the sequence of events as narrated by this lady and nothing stranger than the result when viewed for instance by lestrade of scotland yard .
he opened the case and taking out the diadem he laid it upon the table .
from dundee i answered glancing at the postmark .
my guide stopped and looked about her like one who is at her wit s end .
at the sight of these newcomers our client had sprung from his seat and stood very erect with his eyes cast down and his hand thrust into the breast of his a picture of offended dignity .
lestrade shrugged his shoulders .
then that will simplify matters .
i am all off colour .
i asked as i entered .
wilson ?
holmes thrust his long thin legs out towards the fire and composed himself to listen .
she was passing the front pew at the time and it fell over into the pew .
is saturday and i hope that by monday we may come to a conclusion .
look in here !
there are none missing .
when i cried out that it was a false alarm she replaced it glanced at the rocket rushed from the room and i have not seen her since .
we did at last hear that somewhere far out in the atlantic a shattered of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave with the letters l .
i only caught a glimpse of her at the moment but she was a lovely woman with a face that a man might die for .
lestrade looked sadly at my companion .
hudson came .
it was not in front .
sherlock holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him kindly on the shoulder .
where is it then ?
one night it was in june there came a ring to my bell about the hour when a man gives his first yawn and glances at the clock .
you saw the ventilator too ?
absolute and complete silence before during and after ?
said holmes folding up the paper and returning it to our visitor .
now keep your eyes open in this crowd for your friends of last night though i very much fear that they are a good hundred miles off by now .
he gasped .
lyon place camberwell .
you have degraded what should have been a course of lectures into a series of tales .
i will get her to show me .
the lady gave a violent start and stared in bewilderment at my companion .
as it happens he spoke of coming into town upon some most important business .
it was only that i spoke to major prendergast about my troubles and was advised by him to come to you .
the daughter was of a good amiable disposition but affectionate and in her ways so that it was evident that with her fair personal advantages and her little income she would not be allowed to remain single long .
but how to get to him in safety ?
looking over his shoulder i saw that on the pavement opposite there stood a large woman with a heavy fur boa round her neck and a large curling red feather in a hat which was tilted in a coquettish duchess of devonshire fashion over her ear .
you see how quickly the deed followed the sign when it came from dundee .
he had stood behind that tree during the interview between the father and son .
said he .
you remember that the affair of the blue carbuncle which appeared to be a mere whim at first developed into a serious investigation .
i had it from the stevedore who has been loading their cargo .
you may place considerable confidence in holmes sir said the police agent loftily .
it is not necessary that i should prolong a narrative which has already run to too great a length by telling how we broke the sad news to the terrified girl how we conveyed her by the morning train to the care of her good aunt at harrow of how the slow process of official inquiry came to the conclusion that the doctor met his fate while indiscreetly playing with a dangerous pet .
james never did it .
i shall look forward to seeing you again this afternoon .
i met him first at the gasfitters ball she said .
i held the little printed slip to the light .
sherlock holmes was as i expected lounging about his in his reading the agony column of the times and smoking his pipe which was composed of all the plugs and dottles left from his smokes of the day before all carefully dried and collected on the corner of the mantelpiece .
just read it out to me .
he cried .
but you would not advise me to refuse ?
ix .
oh then we have three days yet said holmes with a yawn .
then the matter stands thus .
he cried .
she was rather above the middle height slim with dark hair and eyes which seemed the darker against the absolute pallor of her skin .
no but i observe the second half of a return ticket in the palm of your left glove .
then when i flash a light upon them close in swiftly .
the letter which i hold in my hand is from lord simon .
we shall be at the copper beeches by seven o clock my friend and the rucastles will be gone by that time and toller will we hope be incapable .
was it all to go for nothing ?
as i passed the door which must always be associated in my mind with my wooing and with the dark incidents of the study in scarlet i was seized with a keen desire to see holmes again and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers .
now i knew that it was not you who had brought it down so there only remained your niece and the maids .
he picked out from his bundle a copy of the local herefordshire paper and having turned down the sheet he pointed out the paragraph in which the unfortunate young man had given his own statement of what had occurred .
excuse me i know everything of it .
yes sir i do and i am ready enough to tell what i know .
i should not have thought there were so many in the whole country as were brought together by that single advertisement .
it was headed march and beneath were the following enigmatical notices .
he had evidently been carried down by two persons one of whom had remarkably small feet and the other unusually large ones .
a hundred and fifty guineas apiece .
i can only say madam that i shall be happy to devote the same care to your case as i did to that of your friend .
i then hurried forward and found him standing by the pool .
well watson we shall see who will win in the long run .
no i must go .
the right side ?
his name is vincent spaulding and he s not such a youth either .
as cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones both before and after .
i should be ungrateful if i were not seeing what i gained through one of them i answered .
he sprang round and i could see in the that every vestige of colour had been driven from his face .
my groom and my page sleep out of the house and may be set aside altogether .
the doctor ?
i can t make bricks without clay .
it was in the latter days of september and the equinoctial gales had set in with exceptional violence .
but how about hosmer angel ?
or fresh ?
yes i have been dragging the serpentine .
well the snuff then and the freemasonry ?
then ?
come along !
no .
with an apology for my intrusion i was about to withdraw when holmes pulled me abruptly into the room and closed the door behind me .
what an exposure !
i am grimesby roylott of stoke moran .
i was very weak but i have had a good deal to go through .
then the page we have seen is such as we might expect .
remember watson that though we have so homely a thing as a goose at one end of this chain we have at the other a man who will certainly get seven years penal servitude unless we can establish his innocence .
it s more than a precious stone .
asked holmes .
it is her carriage .
i was wondering what i should say to this dear little woman when she meets me at the door .
here is the first notice which i can find .
in this case i found her biography sandwiched in between that of a hebrew rabbi and that of a who had written a monograph upon the fishes .
i asked .
there s the village said the driver pointing to a cluster of roofs some distance to the left but if you want to get to the house you ll find it shorter to get over this stile and so by the footpath over the fields .
asked sherlock holmes with his together and his eyes to the ceiling .
i know that james didn t do it .
as low as you can he answered i have excellent ears .
the lascar was known to be a man of the vilest antecedents but as by clair s story he was known to have been at the foot of the stair within a very few seconds of her husband s appearance at the window he could hardly have been more than an accessory to the crime .
i will make no allowance .
we must be at briony lodge to meet her .
it is of importance that it should not rain before we are able to go over the ground .
toller for that is his name is a rough uncouth man with grizzled hair and whiskers and a perpetual smell of drink .
and now let us talk about george meredith if you please and we shall leave all minor matters until .
when did it break out ?
a lover evidently for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must feel to you ?
my sister julia and i were twins and we were only two years old at the time of my mother s .
there now !
oh no sir !
they are important you understand without being interesting .
it must have been a very long time for the moon had sunk and a bright morning was breaking when i came to myself .
pray continue said holmes .
but a human body is a different matter .
for the rest it was cracked exceedingly dusty and spotted in several places although there seemed to have been some attempt to hide the discoloured patches by smearing them with ink .
as it pulled up one of the loafing men at the corner dashed forward to open the door in the hope of earning a copper but was elbowed away by another loafer who had rushed up with the same intention .
sometimes i think that i am myself .
both these witnesses depose that mccarthy was walking alone .
he had ceased to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which i have ever listened .
i am prepared to leave it with you as my security .
ah !
i hardly consider that a conclusive proof .
i believe that he foresaw some danger or else he would not have talked so .
i have had nothing else to do .
tiptoes !
your wife has been waiting this two days for you .
oh do do take my word for it that he is innocent .
in san francisco a year ago .
your advice will be altogether invaluable to me .
you blackguard !
however that may be the young lady was very decidedly carried away and having quite made up her mind that her stepfather was in france the suspicion of treachery never for an instant entered her mind .
no no the mystery !
we lunch at swindon and i see that we shall be there in twenty minutes .
no no cried holmes shoving him back into the chair from which he had half risen .
palmer and pritchard were among the heads of their profession .
disregarding my presence she went straight to her uncle and passed her hand over his head with a sweet womanly caress .
not at all .
my companion noiselessly closed the shutters moved the lamp onto the table and cast his eyes round the room .
i wired to bristol for it last night .
one evening after the child was in bed i began to amuse myself by examining the furniture of my room and by rearranging my own little things .
i didn t know what to do .
pray what steps did you take when you found the card upon the door ?
what was this nocturnal expedition and why should i go armed ?
there is only one point on which i must insist .
the lamp still stood upon the floor where i had placed it when examining the trough .
his expression his manner his very soul seemed to vary with every fresh part that he assumed .
for answer holmes pushed back the frill of black lace which fringed the hand that lay upon our visitor s knee .
do you promise then ?
holmes i cried i seem to see dimly what you are hinting at .
let us now see the letter .
i had already noticed the peculiarities of the typewriter and i wrote to the man himself at his business address asking him if he would come here .
eventually in the year the movement rather suddenly collapsed although there have been sporadic outbreaks of the same sort since that date .
there is not and there never has been any such person .
this terrible secret society was formed by some soldiers in the southern states after the civil war and it rapidly formed local branches in different parts of the country notably in tennessee louisiana the carolinas georgia and florida .
but i take it that it is more likely to be some crony of the landlady s .
kindly look her up in my index doctor murmured holmes without opening his eyes .
i have some remembrance said he that on the day when my uncle burned the papers i observed that the small unburned margins which lay amid the ashes were of this particular colour .
it s a common enough lash .
the stout gentleman half rose from his chair and gave a bob of greeting with a quick little questioning glance from his small eyes .
she laid her little bundle of papers upon the table and went her way with a promise to come again whenever she might be summoned .
that will await him when he enters port said he chuckling .
i am going out now !
what then ?
viii .
too large for easy concealment about a woman s dress .
the church of monica john she cried and half a sovereign if you reach it in twenty minutes .
but the letter had also a greater distance to come .
your conversation is most entertaining said he .
whispered holmes .
well when i came to think it all over in cool blood i was very much astonished as you may both think at this sudden commission which had been intrusted to me .
i don t believe it .
briefly watson i am in the midst of a very remarkable inquiry and i have hoped to find a clue in the incoherent ramblings of these sots as i have done before now .
her boots i didn t observe .
he was a man coarsely clad as became his calling with a coloured shirt protruding through the rent in his tattered coat .
if not i should much prefer to communicate with you alone .
three of our boys were killed however before we got the swag .
she had hardly said the words when young mccarthy came running up to the lodge to say that he had found his father dead in the wood and to ask for the help of the .
i wouldn t frighten kate poor little kate .
it is a cold night and i observe that your circulation is more adapted for summer than for winter .
who were these german people and what were they doing living in this strange place ?
pray compose yourself sir said holmes and let me have a clear account of who you are and what it is that has befallen you .
if i tell her she will not believe me .
they may do what they like but i ll checkmate them still said he with an oath .
spies and thieves !
just one hint to you lestrade drawled holmes before his rival vanished i will tell you the true solution of the matter .
cried the inspector you have formed your opinion !
there is no good for you to do .
no servant would stay with us and for a long time we did all the work of the house .
that is our signal said holmes springing to his feet it comes from the middle window .
i got his leave to come into town this morning though he little knew for what purpose .
have you followed me so far ?
my heart turned to water for there was no sign of the stone and i knew that some terrible mistake had occurred .
all day i was engaged in my professional work and it was late in the evening before i returned to baker street .
we compress the earth into bricks so as to remove them without revealing what they are .
holmes suddenly bent his strength upon it but without result .
for half an hour i sat with straining ears .
then who could this american be and why should he possess so much influence over her ?
i presume that i may take it as correct this article for example as to the disappearance of the bride .
and this ?
the habit grew upon him as i understand from some foolish freak when he was at college for having read de quincey s description of his dreams and sensations he had drenched his tobacco with laudanum in an attempt to produce the same effects .
he knew he was safe with her but when there was a chance of a husband coming forward who would ask for all that the law would give him then her father thought it time to put a stop on it .
certainly not .
gone was the coarse brown tint !
i slipped in in safety and lay awake half the night in my joy at the thought of seeing you .
oh really !
at three o clock precisely i was at baker street but holmes had not yet returned .
here is a pen .
a murderous attack ?
what is it ?
be it so said he .
by it he laid the box of matches and the stump of a candle .
and the pay ?
those are all the notices which appeared before the disappearance of the bride .
may i see your father if i call ?
one mistake had been made in not arresting boone instantly as he was allowed some few minutes during which he might have communicated with his friend the lascar but this fault was soon remedied and he was seized and searched without anything being found which could incriminate him .
a frenchman or russian could not have written that .
and thus was solved the mystery of the sinister house with the copper beeches in front of the door .
he might have leaped back .
had he lost his wife ?
i took the paper from him and read as follows to the league on account of the bequest of the late ezekiah hopkins of lebanon pennsylvania there is now another vacancy open which entitles a member of the league to a salary of a week for purely nominal services .
you did not overhear what they said ?
he stammered .
however when our turn came the little man was much more favourable to me than to any of the others and he closed the door as we entered so that he might have a private word with us .
it is fear holmes .
on the whole it was most probable that the silent englishman being less bold or less murderous than his companion had assisted the woman to bear the unconscious man out of the way of danger .
it must have been this morning or the mark would not remain clear upon the finger .
hence those vows of fidelity exacted upon a testament and hence also the allusions to a possibility of something happening on the very morning of the wedding .
but he is a dirty scoundrel .
he says four o clock .
holmes turned to his desk and unlocking it drew out a small which he consulted .
this is the girl s stepfather james windibank said holmes .
a flush stole over miss sutherland s face and she picked nervously at the fringe of her jacket .
could your patients spare you for a few hours ?
a tall stout official had come down the passage in a peaked cap and frogged jacket .
he drank a great deal of brandy and smoked very heavily but he would see no society and did not want any friends not even his own brother .
he is the greengrocer who brings our vegetables round .
now for such a case as the one which has been submitted to us we need certainly to muster all our resources .
we shall want you to come by the last train .
if i promise to keep a secret said i you may absolutely depend upon my doing so .
there is no doubt that you have detected and defeated in the most complete manner one of the most determined attempts at bank robbery that have ever come within my experience .
we laid him upon the sofa and having dispatched the sobered toller to bear the news to his wife i did what i could to relieve his pain .
the left arm of your jacket is spattered with mud in no less than seven places .
i thought at first that you had done something clever but i see that there was nothing in it after all .
did i not see you trying to tear off another piece ?
no one knows a word of the matter but you can imagine how maddening it must be to him to be upbraided for not doing what he would give his very eyes to do but what he knows to be absolutely impossible .
the adventure of the beryl coronet holmes said i as i stood one morning in our looking down the street here is a madman coming along .
i took two steps forward and looked back .
did your wife hear all this ?
if she were then at any risks i was determined to go back to her assistance .
well when they closed their league offices that was a sign that they cared no longer about jabez wilson s presence in other words that they had completed their tunnel .
it might be a satisfaction to his majesty to regain it with his own hands .
what sundial ?
no i shall commence with the city .
do you desire your name to be kept upon the books ?
in front of him he saw in the gaslight a tallish man walking with a slight stagger and carrying a white goose slung over his shoulder .
i wish i knew how you reach your results .
this dress does implicate miss flora millar .
to the leadenhall street post office to be left till called for .
it seemed to me to be something grey in colour a coat of some sort or a plaid perhaps .
yes sir .
i confess that i was disappointed .
when an actor i had of course learned all the secrets of making up and had been famous in the for my skill .
the ceiling was only a foot or two above my head and with my hand upraised i could feel its hard rough surface .
i paced up and down the room humming a tune under my breath to keep up my spirits and feeling that i was thoroughly earning my fee .
this dust you will observe is not the gritty grey dust of the street but the fluffy brown dust of the house showing that it has been hung up indoors most of the time while the marks of moisture upon the inside are proof positive that the wearer perspired very freely and could therefore hardly be in the best of training .
were you engaged to the gentleman at this time ?
you have done well indeed !
at first i thought that she had not recognised me but as i bent over her she suddenly shrieked out in a voice which i shall never forget oh my god !
if we could fly out of that window hand in hand hover over this great city gently remove the roofs and peep in at the queer things which are going on the strange coincidences the plannings the the wonderful chains of events working through generations and leading to the most outré results it would make all fiction with its conventionalities and foreseen conclusions most stale and unprofitable .
here are his keys which are the duplicates of mr .
indeed said holmes .
you are doing what you can for him and for me .
then again i have heard it is no use your applying if your hair is light red or dark red or anything but real bright blazing fiery red .
sherlock holmes and i had no difficulty in engaging a bedroom and at the crown inn .
put the papers on the sundial i read peeping over his shoulder .
said he .
it is a question of hydraulics you see and came within my own province .
thrust away behind a curtain in the front room were all the clothes of neville clair with the exception of his coat .
he is in my judgment the fourth smartest man in london and for daring i am not sure that he has not a claim to be third .
he locked the door and hurried past me without a word or a look .
my first glance is always at a woman s sleeve .
you are mad elise !
step into my room here .
an elderly man i presume ?
won t it ring ?
it must be confessed however that the case looks exceedingly grave against the young man and it is very possible that he is indeed the culprit .
and now it is time that we arranged our little plans .
i know nothing further of the matter .
you have shown your relish for it by the enthusiasm which has prompted you to chronicle and if you will excuse my saying so somewhat to embellish so many of my own little adventures .
at last however the bumping of the road was exchanged for the crisp smoothness of a and the carriage came to a stand .
he lay back without wincing though he bit his lip from time to time .
all was as we had seen it in the daytime .
the rest you will leave in our hands .
for all these reasons i expected them to come .
here we are and they are waiting for us .
but if you have why then how could any gentleman ask you to condescend to accept anything under the three figures ?
then the charge against him will break down .
the road is an important highway and there are usually people there .
out of the black shadows there glimmered little red circles of light now bright now faint as the burning poison waxed or waned in the bowls of the metal pipes .
this note i had this morning marks my i fancy .
so and so of ballarat .
you fill me with interest said holmes .
about this girl miss holder .
when you see a man with whiskers of that cut and the pink un protruding out of his pocket you can always draw him by a bet said he .
having once made up my mind you know the steps which i took in order to put the matter to the proof .
your boy arthur went to bed after his interview with you but he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts .
this is the man whom we now learn to have been the lodger at the opium den and to have been the last man to see the gentleman of whom we are in quest .
i was the only passenger who got out there and there was no one upon the platform save a single sleepy porter with a lantern .
a few country carts were stirring bearing in vegetables to the metropolis but the lines of villas on either side were as silent and lifeless as some city in a dream .
i will call at four o clock in the afternoon and should you have any other engagement at that time i hope that you will postpone it as this matter is of paramount importance .
no the debt is not to me .
i rushed upstairs explained the matter shortly to my wife and in five minutes was inside a hansom driving with my new acquaintance to baker street .
pray do so .
a short railway journey and a shorter walk brought us to fairbank the modest residence of the great financier .
and did you observe any change in her then ?
of course that is only just for the time .
so i heard .
then let me do so ?
i confess that i felt easier in my mind when after following holmes example and slipping off my shoes i found myself inside the bedroom .
which are ?
i pray not sir .
let the whole incident be a sealed book and do not allow it to affect your life .
i asked .
precisely .
you may then walk to the end of the street and i will rejoin you in ten minutes .
an accident i presume ?
.
in view of your health nothing .
for two days after my arrival at the copper beeches my life was very quiet on the third rucastle came down just after breakfast and whispered something to her husband .
no wind and not a cloud in the sky .
do not dream of going watson for i very much prefer having a witness if only as a check to my own memory .
then she got better at last all worn to a shadow and with her beautiful hair cut off but that didn t make no change in her young man and he stuck to her as true as man could be .
there was one about three miles off .
as to who this prisoner is i have no doubt that it is the daughter miss alice rucastle if i remember right who was said to have gone to america .
entirely .
it is not worth your while to wait she went on .
i can not think .
and from a noble client ?
don t you see that you alternately give him credit for having too much imagination and too little ?
the crudest of writers could invent nothing more crude .
the very noblest in the land may suffer unless some way be found out of this horrible affair .
his whole face sharpened away into nose and chin and the skin of his cheeks was drawn quite tense over his outstanding bones .
my dear holmes !
i do not know what i have done to be so severely tried said he .
i understand that you give me carte blanche to act for you provided only that i get back the gems and that you place no limit on the sum i may draw .
she became restive insisted upon her rights and finally announced her positive intention of going to a certain ball .
he looked very hard at me as i spoke and it seemed to me that i had never seen so suspicious and questioning an eye .
i could of course borrow so trifling a sum ten times over from my friends but i much prefer to make it a matter of business and to carry out that business myself .
in the first place we may start with a strong presumption that colonel openshaw had some very strong reason for leaving america .
i say it is south for the country is more deserted there .
there s plenty of thread no doubt but i can t get the end of it into my hand .
and now and now i am myself a branded thief without ever having touched the wealth for which i sold my character .
but you know i have been trained as an actress myself .
i dressed hurriedly for i knew by experience that railway cases were seldom trivial and hastened downstairs .
he could not explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands .
i will tell you however .
by degrees he made friends in the neighbourhood and in he married the daughter of a local brewer by whom he now has two children .
smart fellow that observed holmes as we walked away .
it struck me that it might have been fastened by a mere oversight so i took out my bunch of keys and tried to open it .
this is what he says my dear sherlock holmes lord backwater tells me that i may place implicit reliance upon your judgment and discretion .
said he at last .
as he ran he jerked his hands up and down waggled his head and writhed his face into the most extraordinary contortions .
the driver looked twice at such a shabby fare but i jumped in before he could object .
his costume was a peculiar mixture of the professional and of the agricultural having a black a long and a pair of high gaiters with a swinging in his hand .
your narrative promises to be a most interesting one .
he drank more than ever and he was less inclined for any sort of society .
i am alexander holder of the banking firm of holder stevenson of threadneedle street .
you seem most fortunate in having an employé who comes under the full market price .
when about a hundred yards from the pool i heard a cry of cooee !
the only drawback is that there is no law i fear that can touch the scoundrel .
i think that if anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been she and that his marriage might have changed his whole life but now alas !
i ask you now is such a theory tenable ?
quite an interesting study that maiden he observed .
it is dated from grosvenor mansions written with a quill pen and the noble lord has had the misfortune to get a smear of ink upon the outer side of his right little finger remarked holmes as he folded up the epistle .
having measured these very carefully from seven or eight different points holmes desired to be led to the from which we all followed the winding track which led to boscombe pool .
she has heard of you and would have your opinion though i repeatedly told her that there was nothing which you could do which i had not already done .
holmes ?
we are at present doctor as no doubt you have divined in the cellar of the city branch of one of the principal london banks .
i cried .
i have solved it .
they used to send father tickets when he was alive and then afterwards they remembered us and sent them to mother .
yes .
your son had no shoes or slippers on when you saw him ?
said he gripping hard at his courage .
holmes moved the lamp and we both bent over the sheet of paper which showed by its ragged edge that it had indeed been torn from a book .
and holmes fears came to be realised for from that day to this no word has ever been heard either of the beautiful woman the sinister german or the morose englishman .
i shall write to rucastle at once sacrifice my poor hair and start for winchester .
that was unfortunate .
i then lounged down the street and found as i expected that there was a mews in a lane which runs down by one wall of the garden .
well that is clear enough certainly .
this assistant of yours who first called your attention to the advertisement how long had he been with you ?
i can assure you that it has nothing to do with the sad tragedy which followed .
and what then ?
we have tried and failed .
one more question .
frankly then madam i do not .
when i was a youngster i have opened it myself with the key of the cupboard .
he is dark handsome and dashing never calls less than once a day and often twice .
a clump of copper beeches immediately in front of the hall door has given its name to the place .
i thought it was wednesday .
her prolonged absence having caused some comment her father followed her but learned from her maid that she had only come up to her chamber for an instant caught up an ulster and bonnet and hurried down to the passage .
they were evidently all deserted .
and then seeing that there were two of us she gave a cry of hope which sank into a groan as she saw that my companion shook his head and shrugged his shoulders .
there is a huge error which it may take some little time to rectify .
some three hours or so afterwards we were all in the train together bound from reading to the little berkshire village .
we could write in the meantime and he used to write every day .
you didn t know this dead man mccarthy .
still jealousy is a strange transformer of characters .
but i am somewhat headstrong by nature and the more ready to engage in an affair when there is some obstacle in the way .
he takes the obvious course of keeping her at home and forbidding her to seek the company of people of her own age .
it is the precious stone .
he is a man who leads a sedentary life goes out little is out of training entirely is has grizzled hair which he has had cut within the last few days and which he anoints with .
replied our visitor the very horror of my situation lies in the fact that my fears are so vague and my suspicions depend so entirely upon small points which might seem trivial to another that even he to whom of all others i have a right to look for help and advice looks upon all that i tell him about it as the fancies of a nervous woman .
what are you going to do then ?
come in !
i ll take you round to him myself .
the only remaining point was what they were burrowing for .
oh she has turned all the men s heads down in that part .
here signed with her initials is the very note which was no doubt quietly slipped into her hand at the door and which lured her within their reach .
frank wouldn t throw up his hand though so he followed me there and he saw me without pa knowing anything about it .
well i have no doubt that this small matter will fall into the same innocent category .
he took a large villa laid out the grounds very nicely and lived generally in good style .
sherlock holmes pushed him down into the and sitting beside him patted his hand and chatted with him in the easy soothing tones which he knew so well how to employ .
you were not yourself at fault at all then ?
two days later that is on wednesday last there is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place and that the honeymoon would be passed at lord backwater s place near petersfield .
my dear young lady !
then he closed the locket and handed it back to lord simon .
you must not fear said he soothingly bending forward and patting her forearm .
helen !
she would like advice but is not sure that the matter is not too delicate for communication .
i ought to know its size and shape seeing that i have read the advertisement about it in the times every day lately .
by no means .
was it your custom always to lock yourselves in at night ?
this was clearly the cause of the loss of power and i pointed it out to my companions who followed my remarks very carefully and asked several practical questions as to how they should proceed to set it right .
no i shall be my own police .
i glanced down at my hand which was throbbing painfully and then for the first time saw that my thumb had been cut off and that the blood was pouring from my wound .
one day a gold convoy came down from ballarat to melbourne and we lay in wait for it and attacked it .
and now doctor perhaps you would kindly attend to my thumb or rather to the place where my thumb used to be .
we shall now see how the dress will become you .
still that little may as well be cleared up to make the case complete .
upper swandam lane is a vile alley lurking behind the high wharves which line the north side of the river to the east of london bridge .
no his friend .
give him a dash of brandy .
retired from operatic stage ha !
he remarked looking up in surprise .
it was late before sherlock holmes returned .
that clay and chalk mixture which i see upon your toe caps is quite distinctive .
it s a cold night said holmes .
roylott has gone to town and it is unlikely that he will be back before evening .
but then the impossibility of the thing obtruded itself upon me .
now turn that up in the ledger .
the will is very clear upon that point .
during that time she ran free in a mining camp and wandered through woods or mountains so that her education has come from nature rather than from the schoolmaster .
in only one matter has she ever gone against my wishes .
should i stop the service and make a scene in the church ?
i found the ash of a cigar which my special knowledge of tobacco ashes enables me to pronounce as an indian cigar .
it s nothing of the kind .
oh the cause is excellent !
now then found at the corner of goodge street a goose and a black felt hat .
he beckoned to me and then began walking into the park .
as well as i could learn miss alice had rights of her own by will but she was so quiet and patient she was that she never said a word about them but just left everything in rucastle s hands .
he was brought up and remanded for further inquiries .
a name derived from the fanciful resemblance to the sound produced by cocking a rifle .
indeed doctor said holmes blandly .
running up i blew its brains out and it fell over with its keen white teeth still meeting in the great creases of his neck .
what have we here ?
he was a remarkably handsome man dark aquiline and moustached evidently the man of whom i had heard .
ferguson appeared to be a morose and silent man but i could see from the little that he said that he was at least a .
ay bodies watson .
i see it i deduce it .
there can be no doubt that the probability the strong probability is that the writer was on board of a ship .
no sign of it ?
i shall communicate with you .
what could have happened then to bring one of the foremost citizens of london to this most pitiable pass ?
yet it was quite certain from the absolute stillness that we were in the country .
on the contrary said holmes quietly i have every reason to believe that i will succeed in discovering hosmer angel .
but if i am to go i must pack at once for i have only half an hour .
some cold beef and a glass of beer he answered ringing the bell .
for how long may i ask do you want this sum ?
there are a thousand details which i should desire to know before i decide upon our course of action .
what steps will you take ?
i can not tell .
he hastened upstairs and a few minutes later i heard the slam of the hall door which told me that he was off once more upon his congenial hunt .
was she his client his friend or his mistress ?
by jove peterson !
from his hat ?
and so in ten minutes i had left my armchair and cheery behind me and was speeding eastward in a hansom on a strange errand as it seemed to me at the time though the future only could show how strange it was to be .
and how could you tell that they would make their attempt ?
oh at his new offices .
i have a cab outside .
i am going through the city first and we can have some lunch on the way .
i owe you an apology he said raising his golden to his eyes .
mccarthy was very anxious that there should be a marriage between us .
sherlock holmes was pacing up and down the platform his tall gaunt figure made even gaunter and taller by his long grey and cloth cap .
i am glad to see that hudson has had the good sense to light the fire .
the instant that i had crossed the threshold the door slammed heavily behind us and i heard faintly the rattle of the wheels as the carriage drove away .
early that morning a peasant had met a cart containing several people and some very bulky boxes driving rapidly in the direction of reading but there all traces of the fugitives disappeared and even holmes ingenuity failed ever to discover the least clue as to their whereabouts .
i can not now entirely see all the steps of your reasoning i remarked .
it might have been difficult but friend lestrade held information in his hands the value of which he did not himself know .
a a small wooden shelf full of books mostly of a technical character an armchair beside the bed a plain wooden chair against the wall a round table and a large iron safe were the principal things which met the eye .
it looks like it said i ruefully pointing to a huge bundle in the corner .
he knows it already .
no alone .
because he limped he was lame .
having done this you must at once put the box out upon the sundial as directed .
why i wonder at that for you are eligible yourself for one of the vacancies .
it is quite a three pipe problem and i beg that you won t speak to me for fifty minutes .
sherlock holmes staggered back white with chagrin and surprise .
i see that you have had some great trouble responded holmes .
when turner has brought in the tray i will make it clear to you .
said holmes cheerily as we filed into the room .
on the contrary for a small street in a quiet neighbourhood it was remarkably animated .
this is what began it all .
come with me and we will see what is to be made of this fellow .
you have dishonoured me forever !
well you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous work at a week when i knew that i could earn as much in a day by smearing my face with a little paint laying my cap on the ground and sitting still .
it s not been fed for two days .
i sat up in my chair and my wife laid her down in her lap and made a little face of disappointment .
i should recommend you also to send a note by the cabman to your wife to say that you have thrown in your lot with me .
probably he handed it to some sailor customer of his who forgot all about it for some days .
i confess that it is not the situation which i should like to see a sister of mine apply for .
read it aloud .
so i see the other answered with the utmost coolness .
it is easy for me to be so for every event of that dreadful time is seared into my memory .
i am glad to hear you say so said holmes gravely .
we had occasion some months ago to strengthen our resources and borrowed for that purpose napoleons from the bank of france .
his defence was one of absolute ignorance and he protested that he had no knowledge as to the doings of hugh boone his lodger and that he could not account in any way for the presence of the missing gentleman s clothes .
would you give me an introduction to him ?
he threw over a sheet of thick notepaper which had been lying open upon the table .
you have it !
well it is conjectured to be so .
but my memory and my girl !
pray sit down on the sofa said holmes gently .
with hardly a word spoken but with a kindly eye he waved me to an armchair threw across his case of cigars and indicated a spirit case and a gasogene in the corner .
but at any time day or night a telegram would bring me down to your help .
i was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what had occurred .
puzzle as i would i could make nothing at all of what it meant .
there was no rain as holmes had foretold and the morning broke bright and cloudless .
it is my business to know what other people don t know .
it is a pity because in other respects you would really have done very nicely .
they were always very careful i observed to turn my face away from the window so that i became consumed with the desire to see what was going on behind my back .
there were ships of fair tonnage which were reported there during those months .
at waterloo we were fortunate in catching a train for leatherhead where we hired a trap at the station inn and drove for four or five miles through the lovely surrey lanes .
but in any case it does not seem to be a nice household for a young lady .
i know that she will do it .
well have you solved it ?
you hear !
there was no sign of a place whence it had been taken .
they were waiting for me in the which is a very large room stretching along the entire front of the house with three long windows reaching down to the floor .
then how do you know ?
holmes rushed at the tore back a small sliding shutter and plunging in his hand pulled out a photograph and a letter .
and this of course remains to you since the marriage is a fait accompli ?
it was .
a prodigiously stout man with a very smiling face and a great heavy chin which rolled down in fold upon fold over his throat sat at her elbow with a pair of glasses on his nose looking very earnestly at the ladies who entered .
it is not so impossible however that a man should possess all knowledge which is likely to be useful to him in his work and this i have endeavoured in my case to do .
but he might be a bachelor .
as to holmes i observed that he sat frequently for half an hour on end with knitted brows and an abstracted air but he swept the matter away with a wave of his hand when i mentioned it .
one of the farms which he held that of hatherley was let to charles mccarthy who was also an .
i thought that it must be when i saw the door open .
was the window open ?
then i fail to follow your majesty .
i then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present in the port of london .
i am glad to have a friend with whom i can discuss my results .
gone to the dealer s jem .
in the dress is a pocket .
the point is have you or have you not the bearing and deportment of a lady ?
said holmes looking keenly at her .
boots which extended halfway up his calves and which were trimmed at the tops with rich brown fur completed the impression of barbaric opulence which was suggested by his whole appearance .
but how did you gain them ?
to clotilde lothman von second daughter of the king of scandinavia .
american slang is very expressive sometimes .
i cried .
there was something else which she would fain have said and she stabbed with her finger into the air in the direction of the doctor s room but a fresh convulsion seized her and choked her words .
it was in the early s at the diggings .
lestrade shot an angry glance at my companion .
pray step into the cab and i shall soon be able to tell you everything which you would wish to know .
there is one remarkable point however which will no doubt strike you .
my stepfather learned of the engagement when my sister returned and offered no objection to the marriage but within a fortnight of the day which had been fixed for the wedding the terrible event occurred which has deprived me of my only companion .
they have but one retreat whispered holmes .
he was in dreadful earnest and made me swear with my hands on the testament that whatever happened i would always be true to him .
if i can be of use .
he would rather walk with me in the evening than in the daylight for he said that he hated to be conspicuous .
i don t wonder that you should take an interest in it .
but why ?
the stable lane ?
before seeing him .
we shall just be in time to have a little breakfast with him .
my stepfather has offered no opposition to the match and we are to be married in the course of the spring .
his brows were drawn into two hard black lines while his eyes shone out from beneath them with a steely glitter .
no no it is it is his very own writing !
asked holmes .
starving .
these pretended journeys to france were rather cumbrous .
with his collar turned up his shiny seedy coat his red cravat and his worn boots he was a perfect sample of the class .
it would cease to be a danger if we could define it said he .
also by the way that it is extremely improbable that he has gas laid on in his house .
the object which had caught his eye was a small dog lash hung on one corner of the bed .
then there was a loud and authoritative tap .
i have been at some small expense over this matter which i shall expect the bank to refund but beyond that i am amply repaid by having had an experience which is in many ways unique and by hearing the very remarkable narrative of the league .
about the same .
this is a very unexpected turn of affairs said i and what then ?
only as much as we can deduce .
he shook hands with us and took his leave .
you must be weary for you have had a long day .
it is really very good of you to come watson said he .
it is probable .
eight shillings for a bed and eightpence for a glass of sherry pointed to one of the most expensive hotels .
fleet street was choked with folk and pope s court looked like a coster s orange barrow .
i will leave the country sir .
the chimney is wide but is barred up by four large staples .
this discovery and the evident confusion which the cripple showed made the inspector realise that the matter was serious .
ah yes of course !
up to a late hour last night however nothing had transpired as to the whereabouts of the missing lady .
so determined was their denial that the inspector was staggered and had almost come to believe that clair had been deluded when with a cry she sprang at a small deal box which lay upon the table and tore the lid from it .
hum !
there is so keen a sympathy between us that i should know if evil came upon him .
now my dear sir said holmes is it not obvious to you now that this matter really strikes very much deeper than either you or the police were at first inclined to think ?
their papers they mean to have be the holder of them who it may .
did you observe anything very peculiar about that bed ?
i have caught you have i ?
the london press has not had very full accounts .
he was an old friend of mccarthy s and i may add a great benefactor to him for i have learned that he gave him hatherley farm rent free .
i have not treated her ungenerously and she had no just cause of complaint against me but you know what women are holmes .
i think that we may judge lord simon very mercifully and thank our stars that we are never likely to find ourselves in the same position .
it is a curious thing remarked holmes that a typewriter has really quite as much individuality as a man s handwriting .
with trembling hands i undid my trunk turned out the contents and drew from the bottom my own hair .
do you think it points to suicide ?
tut !
i shall have the others but he first .
she heard mccarthy the elder using very strong language to his son and she saw the latter raise up his hand as if to strike his father .
this is my intimate friend and associate watson before whom you can speak as freely as before myself .
i knelt beside him for some minutes and then made my way to turner s his house being the nearest to ask for assistance .
he has written to me to say that he would be here at six .
and who could it be who was her confederate ?
see the advantages of a cabman as a confidant .
one ?
i am no official agent .
you understand holder that i am giving you a strong proof of the confidence which i have in you founded upon all that i have heard of you .
there are fourteen other characteristics but those are the more obvious .
i should not wish a smarter assistant holmes and i know very well that he could better himself and earn twice what i am able to give him .
by the same brilliant reasoning every man s body is to be found in the neighbourhood of his wardrobe .
there is the and there are the where i lay .
i shall be happy to do anything that i can to serve you .
you remember in her statement she said that her sister could smell roylott s cigar .
it makes a considerable difference to me having someone with me on whom i can thoroughly rely .
yet when i spoke to her of the matter she answered me abruptly and in the carriage on our way home she seemed absurdly agitated over this trifling cause .
i do not know what to think .
but i think i have the key of the affair now .
he is not a bad fellow though an absolute imbecile in his profession .
then he turned the handle and entered i at his heels with the cocked pistol in my hand .
it is true that for henry baker was printed upon a small card which was tied to the bird s left leg and it is also true that the initials h .
the boards round and the panelling of the walls were of brown oak so old and discoloured that it may have dated from the original building of the house .
it was catherine cusack who told me of it said he in a crackling voice .
you ll see your pal again presently said jones .
and yet i need not tell you that my mind was far from at ease and that i was certain that some foul plot had been woven round him .
why bless my soul !
one is that the murdered man had an appointment with someone at the pool and that the someone could not have been his son for his son was away and he did not know when he would return .
several times during our homeward journey i endeavoured to sound him upon the point but he always glided away to some other topic until at last i gave it over in despair .
absolutely no clue in them to angel save that he quotes balzac once .
ha !
in that however i was in error .
i advertised and i answered advertisements but without success .
he slapped it down upon the table in front of him .
then pray tell me what it is that you can infer from this hat ?
does that suggest anything ?
and in this letter you certainly have a very strong piece of evidence to corroborate your view .
of friday june .
by the way doctor i shall want your .
one moment said holmes are you sure about this whistle and metallic sound ?
ryder instantly gave the alarm and horner was arrested the same evening but the stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms .
do you know watson said holmes as we sat together in the gathering darkness i have really some scruples as to taking you .
pray tell us what has happened to you .
he was urging his son to marry my daughter with as little regard for what she might think as if she were a slut from off the streets .
carefully as i examined every fact connected with his death i was unable to find anything which could suggest the idea of murder .
did he not advertise ?
a dozen yards or so .
but it needs a great deal of supplementing before anyone could offer an opinion .
the postmark is london eastern division .
no it was more likely to be an attempt to explain how he met his fate .
but this one comes from london and therefore we can not count upon delay .
a greater distance to travel .
then i shall reconsider my resolution about going out .
said he as he took it up pondicherry postmark !
it is thought that flora decoyed my wife out and laid some terrible trap for her .
that is back through the house into square .
pshaw !
well i have only just heard the facts but my mind is made up .
we have still time to take a train to hereford and see him ?
i am much indebted to you sir for a scotch bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity .
i painted my face and to make myself as pitiable as possible i made a good scar and fixed one side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of plaster .
thank god he cried .
but i am very much mistaken if this is not hatherley farm upon the left .
well at least said holmes you have had your revenge upon them .
when i pay good money for a good article there should be an end of the business but it s where are the geese ?
holmes took a note of it .
you will however i am sure excuse me for taking an obvious precaution .
a little may ruin all .
the largest landed proprietor in that part is a john turner who made his money in australia and returned some years ago to the old country .
ah !
i may want your help and so may he .
good heavens !
i shall be all anxiety .
where could i find him ?
he shot a questioning glance at each of us placed his shiny upon the sideboard and with a slight bow sidled down into the nearest chair .
though clear of mind and fairly strong of limb i knew that my own fate was sealed .
it is a little souvenir from the king of bohemia in return for my assistance in the case of the irene adler papers .
have you a cab ?
here ?
we shall spend the night in your room and we shall investigate the cause of this noise which has disturbed you .
james and i have always loved each other as brother and sister but of course he is young and has seen very little of life yet and and well he naturally did not wish to do anything like that yet .
holmes .
i suppose you know what you have got ?
you had heard ryder of this blue stone of the countess of morcar s ?
there were four of them in a row three of which were simply dirty while the fourth was shuttered up .
hum !
then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion .
and now here is my pocket petrarch and not another word shall i say of this case until we are on the scene of action .
and i have some business to do which will take some hours .
it is a swamp adder !
i had a month in my last place with colonel spence munro .
oh yes sir i have only just left him .
it took all my to prevent me from breaking out into a cry of astonishment .
i hope that i may have the pleasure of introducing you .
she had gone off with a man and the man was either a lover or was a previous husband the chances being in favour of the latter .
the name you see is in perfectly black ink which has dried itself .
dearest do not be frightened .
by its light i saw that the black ceiling was coming down upon me slowly jerkily but as none knew better than myself with a force which must within a minute grind me to a shapeless pulp .
i hadn t been at the table ten minutes before i saw frank out of the window at the other side of the road .
may i see it ?
your reasoning is certainly plausible .
why dear me it sounds quite hollow !
sherlock holmes clapped his hands softly together and chuckled .
not at all .
how our hydraulic engineer had been conveyed from the garden to the spot where he recovered his senses might have remained forever a mystery were it not for the soft mould which told us a very plain tale .
certainly .
i left the bird rushed back to my sister s and hurried into the back yard .
there were several people on the pavement at the time but the greeting appeared to come from a slim youth in an ulster who had hurried by .
by this time the whole house was astir for i had raised my voice in my anger .
you of course saw that everyone in the street was an accomplice .
you have been recommended to me hatherley as being a man who is not only proficient in his profession but is also discreet and capable of preserving a secret .
he held out his hand and displayed upon the centre of the palm a brilliantly scintillating blue stone rather smaller than a bean in size but of such purity and radiance that it twinkled like an electric point in the dark hollow of his hand .
the discovery that this was a dummy and that the bed was clamped to the floor instantly gave rise to the suspicion that the rope was there as a bridge for something passing through the hole and coming to the bed .
he relapsed into a moody silence which was not broken until we drew up in serpentine avenue .
very good .
i rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own .
no finished .
said the inspector .
then pray consult said holmes shutting his eyes once more .
.
now he looks a little more human .
now carry out my orders to the letter .
frank said that he would go and make his pile too and never come back to claim me until he had as much as so then i promised to wait for him to the end of time and pledged myself not to marry anyone else while he lived .
yet his actions were in absurd contrast to the dignity of his dress and features for he was running hard with occasional little springs such as a weary man gives who is little accustomed to set any tax upon his legs .
sherlock holmes had been silent all the morning dipping continuously into the advertisement columns of a succession of papers until at last having apparently given up his search he had emerged in no very sweet temper to lecture me upon my literary shortcomings .
i think you will find said sherlock holmes that you will play for a higher stake than you have ever done yet and that the play will be more exciting .
now watson put your shoulder to it and we shall see whether we can not make our way in .
women are naturally secretive and they like to do their own secreting .
let s have it straight now .
see that you keep yourself out of my grip he snarled and hurling the twisted poker into the fireplace he strode out of the room .
a horrible doubt came into my mind as i approached the door lest the dog might be loose but i remembered that toller had drunk himself into a state of insensibility that evening and i knew that he was the only one in the household who had any influence with the savage creature or who would venture to set him free .
the is as i have already said very old and only one wing is now inhabited .
in this case however they have established a very serious case against the son of the murdered man .
how did he come ?
and now i must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which i have done him .
no one could pass these shutters if they were bolted .
the centre door was closed and across the outside of it had been fastened one of the broad bars of an iron bed padlocked at one end to a ring in the wall and fastened at the other with stout cord .
he has been a disappointment to me holmes a grievous disappointment .
when you drove home after the concert i called upon scotland yard and upon the chairman of the bank directors with the result that you have seen .
oh anstruther would do your work for you .
i came in by train this morning and on inquiring at paddington as to where i might find a doctor a worthy fellow very kindly escorted me here .
a maid rushed across and threw open the window .
what the man ?
i love and am loved by a better man than he .
when i was alone once more however with the precious case lying upon the table in front of me i could not but think with some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed upon me .
that is quite settled said he rising and putting his lens in his pocket .
nothing to complain of .
he asked .
witness it is really impossible for me to tell you .
i ll have the other and i ll take it now said i .
there must be some strong reason behind .
on monday .
rucastle is not mad .
i smiled and shook my head .
she is waiting now in the .
we rattled through an endless labyrinth of streets until we emerged into farrington street .
witness it was .
how far from the body ?
while sherlock holmes had been detailing this singular series of events we had been whirling through the outskirts of the great town until the last straggling houses had been left behind and we rattled along with a country hedge upon either side of us .
in the first place both my friend and i must spend the night in your room .
small very quick in his ways no hair on his face though he s not short of thirty .
i shall certainly do as you advise .
by no means .
the matter is too serious for any hesitation .
it was useless however .
the writing is undoubtedly my uncle s .
for christ s sake don t !
hum !
thick clouds of smoke curled through the room and out at the open window .
i feared to refer them to you however as i knew that you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of other matters .
it was the toy which he had promised to bring home .
and one who was at home in the district for the pool can only be approached by the farm or by the estate where strangers could hardly wander .
the name of the maker no doubt or his monogram rather .
within are the very words which were upon my father s last message k .
but the drive ?
is the security sufficient ?
and what will you take for the geese ?
i rang the bell and called for the weekly county paper which contained a verbatim account of the inquest .
it is of course well known to you that in a successful banking business as much depends upon our being able to find remunerative investments for our funds as upon our increasing our connection and the number of our depositors .
are they not fresh and beautiful ?
for example you have frequently seen the steps which lead up from the hall to this room .
he leaned back in his chair and laughed his eyes into his head again .
you will observe said holmes laying down the volume that the sudden breaking up of the society was coincident with the disappearance of openshaw from america with their papers .
i imagine that you saw all that i did .
and now we must be silent and wait .
of what ?
you see holmes i am a very man and as my business came to me instead of my having to go to it i was often weeks on end without putting my foot over the .
lord simon glanced over it .
it s as true as gospel for i began as a ship s carpenter .
violence does in truth recoil upon the violent and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another .
an examination showed that one of the bands which was round the head of a had shrunk so as not quite to fill the socket along which it worked .
i had almost overcome my pride so far as to go back to the agency and inquire whether the place was still open when i received this letter from the gentleman himself .
i hurled it out of the window and it disappeared into the thames .
here is the slip and here are four letters from him .
it is also my custom said he smiling in the most pleasant fashion until his eyes were just two little shining slits amid the white creases of his face to advance to my young ladies half their salary beforehand so that they may meet any little expenses of their journey and their wardrobe .
these we presume indicated the nature of the papers which had been destroyed by colonel openshaw .
a patient !
they considered that it might be caused by arthur s closing his bedroom door .
it was not until close upon six o clock that i found myself free and was able to spring into a hansom and drive to baker street half afraid that i might be too late to assist at the dénouement of the little mystery .
one was the fact that his father should according to his account cry cooee !
here we are !
then something suddenly snapped and your son finding that he had the coronet in his hands rushed back closed the window ascended to your room and had just observed that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the scene .
and how have you succeeded ?
he was a solicitor and was using my room as a temporary convenience until his new premises were ready .
that s right !
where are the gems ?
he was still smiling in the most amiable manner .
and also with the result of causing it to turn upon its master at the other side .
he has one positive virtue .
as i opened my door i seemed to hear a low whistle such as my sister described and a few moments later a clanging sound as if a mass of metal had fallen .
for example what a fool a builder must be to open a ventilator into another room when with the same trouble he might have communicated with the outside air !
get out of this !
he said too much .
he and the two mates are as i learn the only americans in the ship .
it seemed altogether past belief that anyone could make such a will or that they would pay such a sum for doing anything so simple as copying out the encyclopædia britannica .
they each led into an empty room dusty and cheerless with two windows in the one and one in the other so thick with dirt that the evening light glimmered dimly through them .
be in your chamber then at that hour and do not take it amiss if your visitor wear a mask .
it is a bijou villa with a garden at the back but built out in front right up to the road two stories .
of san francisco that is all .
i found sherlock holmes alone however half asleep with his long thin form curled up in the recesses of his armchair .
people tell me that i have spoiled him .
then there is another note in the morning post to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one that it would be at george s hanover square that only half a dozen intimate friends would be invited and that the party would return to the furnished house at lancaster gate which has been taken by aloysius doran .
i am sure you could never guess how i employed my morning or what i ended by doing .
the first had walked both ways but the other had run swiftly and as his tread was marked in places over the depression of the boot it was obvious that he had passed after the other .
is it possible that even now when i give you these results you are unable to see how they are attained ?
she whispered get away from here before it is too late !
i soon found briony lodge .
it was only a line asking me to join him when he made the sign to me to do so .
yes i have got it now he answered with his thick red finger planted halfway down the column .
no no there s life in him !
it is no ordinary one .
god knows i have ! a trouble which is enough to unseat my reason so sudden and so terrible is it .
about or he came back to europe and took a small estate in sussex near horsham .
i may be on the trail in this matter or i may be following a but i shall soon know which it is .
he was a late riser as a rule and as the clock on the mantelpiece showed me that it was only a seven i blinked up at him in some surprise and perhaps just a little resentment for i was myself regular in my habits .
but he has a gentleman staying with him a patient as i understand who is a foreigner and he looks as if a little good berkshire beef would do him no harm .
many times but what was a fine to me ?
as he spoke there was a tap at the door and the boy in buttons entered to announce miss mary sutherland while the lady herself loomed behind his small black figure like a behind a tiny pilot boat .
it is true that i had a country walk on thursday and came home in a dreadful mess but as i have changed my clothes i can t imagine how you deduce it .
it is quite clear that the colonel was a cool and desperate man who was absolutely determined that nothing should stand in the way of his little game like those pirates who will leave no survivor from a captured ship .
had this lady who appeals to us for help gone to live in winchester i should never have had a fear for her .
where are they all maggie ?
nothing ?
when evening came i felt that it would be an imprudence to leave so precious a thing in the office behind me .
and he is admirably suited for it the other answered .
there could be no possible reason .
there was no furniture save a little pallet bed a small table and a basketful of linen .
i believe in hard work and not in sitting by the fire spinning fine theories .
i have devised seven separate explanations each of which would cover the facts as far as we know them .
yes .
this business has had a very bad effect upon him .
the lowest estimate would put the worth of the coronet at double the sum which i have asked .
to an end ?
the ceremony as shortly announced in the papers of yesterday occurred on the previous morning but it is only now that it has been possible to confirm the strange rumours which have been so persistently floating about .
i can not and i will not believe it !
i was a young chap then and reckless ready to turn my hand at anything i got among bad companions took to drink had no luck with my claim took to the bush and in a word became what you would call over here a highway robber .
i have a fairly long list at present .
for heaven s sake tell me then what is this extraordinary mystery !
a lady dressed in black and heavily veiled who had been sitting in the window rose as we entered .
having left lestrade at his rooms we drove to our hotel where we found lunch upon the table .
ah !
then i shall go in it .
is it not a pity that she was not on my level ?
she brought i understand a considerable dowry ?
half a guinea if you do it in twenty minutes !
death said he and rising from the table he retired to his room leaving me palpitating with horror .
he asked .
and an exceedingly interesting case it appears to be .
i see nothing in that .
it may have been taken from him .
deserted you ?
he had a garden and two or three fields round his house and there he would take his exercise though very often for weeks on end he would never leave his room .
well down they came to the west country there was no shaking them off and there they have lived rent free on my best land ever since .
you may safely trust him for he appears to be too limp to get into any mischief .
pray draw up to it and i shall order you a cup of hot coffee for i observe that you are shivering .
that is why i have made you promise me that you will not tell a human being that you are going to eyford .
the bedrooms in this wing are on the ground floor the being in the central block of the buildings .
you are sure of it !
it was not a common thing for him to receive letters for his bills were all paid in ready money and he had no friends of any sort .
pooh !
you have no doubt already formed your conclusions from the newspapers he said .
private affliction also is the lot of every man but the two coming together and in so frightful a form have been enough to shake my very soul .
the five orange pips when i glance over my notes and records of the sherlock holmes cases between the years and i am faced by so many which present strange and interesting features that it is no easy matter to know which to choose and which to leave .
lestrade and i walked behind him the detective indifferent and contemptuous while i watched my friend with the interest which sprang from the conviction that every one of his actions was directed towards a definite end .
but it is impossible said miss hunter the ladder was not there when the rucastles went away .
i could hardly believe my ears .
having found the ash i then looked round and discovered the stump among the moss where he had tossed it .
on the next occasion in the midst of my laughter i put my handkerchief up to my eyes and was able with a little management to see all that there was behind me .
between a and a approached by a steep flight of steps leading down to a black gap like the mouth of a cave i found the den of which i was in search .
and be brave for if you will do what i have told you you may rest assured that we shall soon drive away the dangers that threaten you .
now then !
she was angry and said that i was never to speak of the matter again .
well yes .
then sherlock holmes pulled down from the shelf one of the ponderous commonplace books in which he placed his cuttings .
holmes walked slowly round and examined each and all of them with the keenest interest .
now when young ladies wander about the metropolis at this hour of the morning and knock sleepy people up out of their beds i presume that it is something very pressing which they have to communicate .
i think that you remarked to your uncle last night that she had been out to see him ?
on june that is on monday last mccarthy left his house at hatherley about three in the afternoon and walked down to the boscombe pool which is a small lake formed by the spreading out of the stream which runs down the boscombe valley .
ah !
i expect that within an hour matters will come to a head .
you owe a very humble apology to that noble lad your son who has carried himself in this matter as i should be proud to see my own son do should i ever chance to have one .
well i did what she said holmes and i carried the bird all the way to kilburn .
this he unpacked with the help of a youth whom he had brought with him and presently to my very great astonishment a quite epicurean little cold supper began to be laid out upon our humble mahogany .
you allude to my attempt to recover the irene adler papers to the singular case of miss mary sutherland and to the adventure of the man with the twisted lip .
then he suddenly rolled them all into a gigantic ball and tossed them up onto the rack .
are legible upon the lining of this hat but as there are some thousands of bakers and some hundreds of henry bakers in this city of ours it is not easy to restore lost property to any one of them .
these little problems help me to do so .
this hat is three years old .
capital !
i was speaking only half an hour ago to henry baker who was a member of your goose club .
it was the clank of the levers and the swish of the leaking cylinder .
and now i will show you what is really a very interesting study windibank holmes continued .
i say that i have solved it .
your majesty will of course stay in london for the present ?
said holmes .
there was the end of this tangled clue .
at the wedding breakfast .
there are one or two very singular points about this room .
your wedding was arranged then for the friday .
she raised her veil as she spoke and we could see that she was indeed in a pitiable state of agitation her face all drawn and grey with restless frightened eyes like those of some hunted animal .
she is of a quiet nature .
said i .
then perhaps i had better postpone my analysis of the acetones as we may need to be at our best in the morning .
then my friend rose and threw open the door .
i took the precious case into my hands and looked in some perplexity from it to my illustrious client .
.
cried i if it is anything in the nature of a problem which you desire to see solved i should strongly recommend you to come to my friend sherlock holmes before you go to the official police .
i went to my work as usual at ten o clock but the door was shut and locked with a little square of cardboard hammered on to the middle of the panel with a tack .
why watson let us put their own devilish upon them .
i asked .
his dress was rich with a richness which would in england be looked upon as akin to bad taste .
what sir !
i was glad that he should go for it seemed to me that he was farther from danger when he was away from home .
she left her room therefore and came into mine where she sat for some time chatting about her approaching wedding .
perhaps i have .
i know that miss stoner has been here .
what has she been saying to you ?
you infer that she may have gone out to tell her sweetheart and that the two may have planned the robbery .
i won t have a fuss made about such nonsense .
dirty ?
if you were asked to wear any dress which we might give you you would not object to our little whim .
and now let us consider another point .
my dear fellow i congratulate you .
in the is a note .
i have been waiting so eagerly for you she cried shaking hands with us warmly .
i am endeavouring to tell you everything holmes which may have any bearing upon the case but i beg that you will question me upon any point which i do not make clear .
ah watson said holmes smiling perhaps you would not be very gracious either if after all the trouble of wooing and wedding you found yourself deprived in an instant of wife and of fortune .
too narrow for anyone to pass through .
my sister thinks that i am going mad .
then i have just time with your assistance to get clear upon the subject .
we have had several warnings that an attempt might be made upon it .
she lives quietly sings at concerts drives out at five every day and returns at seven sharp for dinner .
in the pocket is a .
now holmes you know the people who live under my roof and i shall continue with my miserable story .
but have you told me all ?
my father was a schoolmaster in chesterfield where i received an excellent education .
holmes chuckled heartily .
you see all these isolated facts together with many minor ones all pointed in the same direction .
your idea was very new and effective .
no sir but the facts might be met speciously enough .
you know what woman s instincts are .
i don t say that .
you can leave your bag .
better close the front door cried holmes and we all rushed down the stairs together .
and i say doctor there may be some little danger so kindly put your army revolver in your pocket .
nothing to complain of sir .
i think it very unlikely .
it would be a coroner indeed who could distinguish the two little dark punctures which would show where the poison fangs had done their work .
oakshott brixton road read holmes .
it seems to me to be a most dark and sinister business .
so he sat as i dropped off to sleep and so he sat when a sudden ejaculation caused me to wake up and i found the summer sun shining into the apartment .
and she was afterwards seen walking into hyde park in company with flora millar a woman who is now in custody and who had already made a disturbance at doran s house that morning .
tell me dad said she looking i thought a little disturbed did you give lucy the maid leave to go out ?
but a cripple !
but soon he found that that would not answer forever .
it is nothing very formidable he said taking a long roll from his pocket .
on the other hand if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible case against you i do not know that there is any reason that the details should find their way into the papers .
it was all done in an instant and there was the gentleman thanking me on the one side and the lady on the other while the clergyman beamed on me in front .
one sorrow comes close upon the heels of another .
it was a long fight between my pride and the money but the dollars won at last and i threw up reporting and sat day after day in the corner which i had first chosen inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with coppers .
it is most important all the same .
cocktail lunch .
i thought it as well to have jones with us also .
when the commissionaire had gone holmes took up the stone and held it against the light .
vincent spaulding did what he could to cheer me up but by bedtime i had reasoned myself out of the whole thing .
the lady had taken a quick step forward and had held out her hand to him but he still refused to raise his eyes .
a ventilator is made a cord is hung and a lady who sleeps in the bed dies .
yes the .
i should be glad to know what they would be .
it was the band !
if so it is a serious case .
drink this .
miss irene or madame rather returns from her drive at seven .
i slipped out of bed all palpitating with fear and peeped round the corner of my door .
very right !
mary and arthur were much interested and wished to see the famous coronet but i thought it better not to disturb it .
asked holmes glancing up .
holmes ?
well when once his case has been settled he will have a regular prison bath and i think if you saw him you would agree with me that he needed it .
all men who are sound in body and mind and above the age of years are eligible .
prima donna imperial opera of warsaw yes !
they often vanish before the ceremony and occasionally during the honeymoon but i can not call to mind anything quite so prompt as this .
thank you !
holmes shook his head like a man who is far from being satisfied .
ryder passed his tongue over his parched lips .
yes i think we had better do as you suggest .
yes there are nearly always some there .
why did you come away to consult me in such a hurry ?
but i can not understand them and i am not easy in my mind about them .
then i shall call upon you in a day or in two days with news as to the box and the papers .
we sat in silence for some minutes holmes more depressed and shaken than i had ever seen him .
yes i did bang out of the house she said for it made me angry to see the easy way in which windibank that is my father took it all .
the police have openly confessed that they can at present make nothing of it .
for example how did you deduce that this man was intellectual ?
no but this horrible man confessed to having been there and the lascar was at the foot of the stairs .
what is it uncle ?
you look dissatisfied .
as far as i can make out the league was founded by an american millionaire ezekiah hopkins who was very peculiar in his ways .
my limbs were weary and stiff for i feared to change my position yet my nerves were worked up to the highest pitch of tension and my hearing was so acute that i could not only hear the gentle breathing of my companions but i could distinguish the deeper heavier of the bulky jones from the thin sighing note of the bank director .
it was a giant dog as large as a calf tawny tinted with hanging jowl black muzzle and huge projecting bones .
now then !
he cried .
sherlock holmes stopped in front of it with his head on one side and looked it all over with his eyes shining brightly between puckered lids .
and now let us hear a true account of the next act .
at nine o clock lestrade called for us with the carriage and we set off for hatherley farm and the boscombe pool .
then i do not see the point .
there you must stay or you lose your billet .
i thought it as well said holmes as we climbed the stile that this fellow should think we had come here as architects or on some definite business .
oh indeed !
then as to sitting here or there or amusing yourself in any manner indicated that need cause you no inconvenience .
this gentleman was not one of your wife s friends ?
you should be ashamed of yourself !
there is at least a presumption that the vessel in which the man or men are is a .
he chucked it down into a corner and helped himself to a cup of tea .
i took the lamp from him and i examined the machine very thoroughly .
but his voice was just a little too coaxing .
have you heard anything of the case ?
think of my father !
but what other is there ?
it was pierced in the brim for a but the elastic was missing .
then i suggest that we turn our dinner into a supper and follow up this clue while it is still hot .
we can t command our love but we can our actions .
ah he s breathing now .
what a queen she would have made !
no no i call him a gentleman by courtesy but he was quite a person .
the sundial in the garden .
if i claim full justice for my art it is because it is an impersonal thing a thing beyond myself .
and here comes the country surgeon and rucastle so i think watson that we had best escort miss hunter back to winchester as it seems to me that our locus standi now is rather a questionable one .
at present it is out of my power to reward you for your services but in a month or six weeks i shall be married with the control of my own income and then at least you shall not find me ungrateful .
it would only have made him mad to know so we just fixed it all up for ourselves .
i began to laugh at this but the laugh was struck from my lips at the sight of his face .
she struck a gong upon the table and i was shown out by the page .
it is my belief that she died of pure fear and nervous shock though what it was that frightened her i can not imagine .
you do not know her but she has a soul of steel .
within was a small square room in which the three of us could hardly get at one time .
lestrade being rather puzzled has referred the case to me and hence it is that two gentlemen are flying westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their breakfasts at home .
i could see that the end had not been in his mouth .
you see we have already arrived by a process of exclusion at the idea that she might have seen an american .
you have called me names enough said he i will not stand it any longer .
it is quite a pretty little problem said he .
i was still balancing the matter in my mind when a hansom cab drove up to briony lodge and a gentleman sprang out .
we heard the door open a few hurried words and then quick steps upon the linoleum .
the cabman said that he could not imagine what had become of him for he had seen him get in with his own eyes .
i read nothing except the criminal news and the agony column .
he d had the quinsy and swollen glands when he was young he told me and it had left him with a weak throat and a hesitating whispering fashion of speech .
then we shall both come .
what i can not understand said i is why they should have spared you when they found you lying fainting in the garden .
at dusk we saw grimesby roylott drive past his huge form looming up beside the little figure of the lad who drove him .
here is a very fashionable epistle i remarked as he entered .
the road in which we found ourselves as we turned round the corner from the retired square presented as great a contrast to it as the front of a picture does to the back .
it was as well for his resolution perhaps for her pleading face was one which it was hard to resist .
precisely .
the thing to do was clearly to bring the business to an end in such a dramatic manner that it would leave a permanent impression upon the young lady s mind and prevent her from looking upon any other suitor for some time to come .
now where did they come from ?
he sat at my side in silence all the time and i was aware more than once when i glanced in his direction that he was looking at me with great intensity .
i have heard of you holmes .
that is suggestive .
give me your hand !
here is her carriage at the door .
its power was used for political purposes principally for the terrorising of the negro voters and the murdering and driving from the country of those who were opposed to its views .
i believe that a single lady can get on very nicely upon an income of about .
she impressed me neither favourably nor the reverse .
i was very angry for this was the third demand during the month .
now we shall go upstairs said he at last .
but i am now sleeping in the middle one .
the knees of his trousers .
there is that double possibility .
that is why i was so out of breath for i am a man who takes very little exercise .
i can not tell .
here i had heard what he had heard i had seen what he had seen and yet from his words it was evident that he saw clearly not only what had happened but what was about to happen while to me the whole business was still confused and grotesque .
and what else ?
alice is her name .
his cheeks were red his brow was all crinkled with anger and the veins stood out at his temples with passion .
good heavens !
in one of these wings the windows were broken and blocked with wooden boards while the roof was partly caved in a picture of ruin .
i told you yesterday and i repeat that it was not .
as long as she was on the scene he could not take any action without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved .
the adventure of the noble bachelor the lord simon marriage and its curious termination have long ceased to be a subject of interest in those exalted circles in which the unfortunate bridegroom moves .
men at his time of life do not change all their habits and exchange willingly the charming climate of florida for the lonely life of an english provincial town .
it was one of the main arteries which conveyed the traffic of the city to the north and west .
i am holmes answered my companion looking at her with a questioning and rather startled gaze .
no no .
was there a anywhere near ?
he asked tapping the safe .
terrible !
in heaven s name what for ?
read it !
she was very independent in little matters like that .
how in the name of did you know all that mr .
it was a nine when i started from home and made my way across the park and so through oxford street to baker street .
dear miss hunter miss stoper has very kindly given me your address and i write from here to ask you whether you have reconsidered your decision .
i can not with this thought in my mind ever again be happy under your roof and i feel that i must leave you forever .
whoa there whoa !
i must go now doctor i have my dooties just the same as you .
what did they say then of the disappearance of these gems ?
her father is very rich ?
you have been reading the papers diligently of late have you not ?
heh ?
and first of all we must choose our positions .
it was from sherlock holmes and ran in this way have you a couple of days to spare ?
he asked .
where to ?
holmes the busybody !
his name is hugh boone and his hideous face is one which is familiar to every man who goes much to the city .
oh it drives me to think of it and i can t sleep a wink at night .
when a woman has been seriously wronged by a man she no longer oscillates and the usual symptom is a broken bell wire .
i should wish to .
i cried .
i will do so and i must be quick for i have promised rucastle to be back before three .
then i thought of the whistle .
what else could she do ?
they could only have come from the old man at my side and yet he sat now as absorbed as ever very thin very wrinkled bent with age an opium pipe dangling down from between his knees as though it had dropped in sheer lassitude from his fingers .
if they had come from pondicherry in a steamer they would have arrived almost as soon as their letter .
well but china ?
now where did you get them from ?
but you have no notion as to what it could have been ?
what have you to say now ?
sir george burnwell has been several times lately .
i am afraid that you will find it difficult .
then he walked slowly up the street and then down again to the corner still looking keenly at the houses .
voilà tout !
no i have not .
none of those which come to me are .
it is i am afraid not very encouraging to his supporters though there are one or two points in it which are suggestive .
warm !
that was the word the man uttered and of which his son only caught the last two syllables .
then comes our expedition of .
i thought as much said he .
yes .
certainly .
holmes walked slowly up and down the lawn and examined with deep attention the outsides of the windows .
a month ago however a dear friend whom i have known for many years has done me the honour to ask my hand in marriage .
a professional case of great gravity was engaging my own attention at the time and the whole of next day i was busy at the bedside of the sufferer .
your majesty has indeed committed an indiscretion .
when he came to the high road at the other end i found that the pavement had been cleared so there was an end to that clue .
i am afraid that that is quite impossible said he had been watching me eagerly out of his small eyes and i could see a shadow pass over his face as i spoke .
james mccarthy was acquitted at the assizes on the strength of a number of objections which had been drawn out by holmes and submitted to the defending counsel .
then what are they ?
gone too was the horrid scar which had seamed it across and the twisted lip which had given the repulsive sneer to the face !
boone as i have told you was arrested and taken to the station but it could not be shown that there had ever before been anything against him .
we had walked several times up and down the lawn neither miss stoner nor myself liking to break in upon his thoughts before he roused himself from his reverie .
easier the other way perhaps and yet had i the nerve to lie and look up at that deadly black shadow wavering down upon me ?
quite so .
yet with all this you made me reveal what you wanted to know .
he drew up the windows on either side tapped on the and away we went as fast as the horse could go .
i simply wish to hear your real real opinion .
he has been of most vital use to me in several of my cases and a lucky chance has made it possible for me to bring him out and associate him with this investigation .
well that is a list of my town suppliers .
of course in your position of unofficial adviser and helper to everybody who is absolutely puzzled throughout three continents you are brought in contact with all that is strange and bizarre .
you have carte blanche .
you have been brought there to personate someone and the real person is imprisoned in this chamber .
a call for help you thought ?
his appearance you see is so remarkable that no one can pass him without observing him .
he has little time for he has heard the scuffle downstairs when the wife tried to force her way up and perhaps he has already heard from his lascar confederate that the police are hurrying up the street .
that was to some extent in favour of the accused as when seen quarrelling he was face to face with his father .
i hesitated whether to attempt to secure the photograph at once but the coachman had come in and as he was watching me narrowly it seemed safer to wait .
i asked .
i sat down beside the fire however with the intention of awaiting him however long he might be .
i only doubt the propriety of my leaving it .
sherlock holmes had sprung out and seized the intruder by the collar .
sherlock holmes leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily .
they were all horrible to me .
my companion sat in the front of the trap his arms folded his hat pulled down over his eyes and his chin sunk upon his breast buried in the deepest thought .
clair had fainted at the sight of the blood upon the window and she was escorted home in a cab by the police as her presence could be of no help to them in their investigations .
good god !
that is how he did it .
she will not be able to .
his wicked lust for gold kindled at the news and he bent her to his will .
ah watson you have just come at the right time .
the cedars ?
oh yes plenty .
if you won t tell us the bet is off that is all .
we should be rich men if we had for every poor devil who has been done to death in that den .
the salesman nodded and shot a questioning glance at my companion .
that s the worst of it holmes i don t know .
precisely so on december just five days ago .
that is well .
i found this single sheet upon the floor of his room and i am inclined to think that it may be one of the papers which has perhaps fluttered out from among the others and in that way has escaped destruction .
on the fourth day after the new year i heard my father give a sharp cry of surprise as we sat together at the .
that he should come to me for help and that i should send him away to his death !
pray tell me in what way i can reward you .
i answered sharply .
i think that it is quite clear that there must be more than one of them .
but i who knew how he winced from the very thought of death had much ado to persuade myself that he had gone out of his way to meet it .
i gasped .
never trust to general impressions my boy but concentrate yourself upon details .
yes it struck me as being a little out of the common .
i saw an vagabond in the lane yesterday evening said holder .
it cuts into glass as though it were putty .
so i am .
and why did you wish to see me ?
yes but very small ones .
he asked .
besides there were no marks of any violence upon her .
was your sister dressed ?
yes .
now you must have some wine and water and sit here comfortably and tell us all about it .
he asked .
he broke the seal and glanced over the contents .
my god !
to eat it !
see that light among the trees ?
what i expected to see .
but when i gave him every particular that had occurred he tried to bluster and took down a from the wall .
it seems rather sad that his relatives should allow him to come out alone .
i was admiring your fuller said i i think that i should be better able to advise you as to your machine if i knew what the exact purpose was for which it was used .
there is no reason therefore to think that money troubles have been weighing upon his mind .
pray give us the essential facts from the commencement and i can afterwards question you as to those details which seem to me to be most important .
i trust sir that you will succeed in proving what i feel sure is the truth that my cousin arthur is innocent of this crime .
i suppose that you have been watching the habits and perhaps the house of miss irene adler .
is a tall man limps with the right leg wears and a grey cloak smokes indian cigars uses a and carries a blunt in his pocket .
you heard him yourselves .
far away we could hear the deep tones of the parish clock which boomed out every quarter of an hour .
then suddenly realising the exposure he broke into a scream and threw himself down with his face to the pillow .
then he became a little more reasonable .
entirely .
yes i answered laughing .
as he stepped up to the cab he pulled a gold watch from his pocket and looked at it earnestly drive like the devil he shouted first to gross hankey s in regent street and then to the church of monica in the edgeware road .
it is the most lovely country my dear young lady and the dearest old .
there was not a soul there save the two whom i had followed and a surpliced clergyman who seemed to be expostulating with them .
what do you say dear ?
well i hope to goodness the house won t be burgled during the night .
i left the house a little after eight o clock this morning in the character of a groom out of work .
no no the real name said holmes sweetly .
i know where it is .
within there was a small corridor which ended in a very massive iron gate .
you observed that her right glove was torn at the forefinger but you did not apparently see that both glove and finger were stained with violet ink .
i thought at any rate that i should call you and give you the chance .
you saw her return by the kitchen door i presume ?
some woman came talking something or other about lord simon to me seemed to me from the little i heard as if he had a little secret of his own before marriage also but i managed to get away from her and soon overtook frank .
how did you deduce the select ?
with a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the corridor .
i am very angry indeed and i have been shamefully used .
at last the little money which i had saved began to run short and i was at my wit s end as to what i should do .
when i arrived at the house continued holmes i at once went very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the snow which might help me .
said he .
i could see that she was pretty and from the gloss with which the light shone upon her dark dress i knew that it was a rich material .
wilson !
the second is that the murdered man was heard to cry cooee !
it is wednesday .
i asked .
last monday neville clair went into town rather earlier than usual remarking before he started that he had two important commissions to perform and that he would bring his little boy home a box of bricks .
come in !
lestrade laughed .
perhaps .
game for a morning drive ?
the cab and the landau with their steaming horses were in front of the door when i arrived .
oh says she we ve set yours aside for you jem s bird we call it .
as the daughter could not have been less than twenty i can quite imagine that her position must have been uncomfortable with her father s young wife .
i only wish that you could come with me watson but i fear that it won t do .
and off he went this trusty tout without even giving me time to thank him .
that represents the last time that the colonel needed to have his machine overhauled i fancy .
fresh scandals have eclipsed it and their more piquant details have drawn the gossips away from this drama .
you see it watson ?
since you ask me however i may say that it has occurred to me as possible that the excitement of this affair the consciousness that she had made so immense a social stride had the effect of causing some little nervous disturbance in my wife .
our quest is practically finished .
there were no signs of violence upon any of these garments and there were no other traces of neville clair .
this is very interesting .
this i suppose is he .
oh that !
it is perhaps less suggestive than it might have been he remarked and yet there are a few inferences which are very distinct and a few others which represent at least a strong balance of probability .
i simply want your opinion about a hydraulic stamping machine which has got out of gear .
but if he is innocent who has done it ?
i am staying there while i conduct the inquiry .
my marriage had drifted us away from each other .
seeing that my client was anxious to leave i said no more but calling for my cashier i ordered him to pay over fifty notes .
i did as he ordered and when the lawyer arrived i was asked to step up to the room .
there are three men waiting for him at the door said holmes .
there is serious news this morning lestrade observed .
i was fortunate enough to discover that there was a deposit of fuller in one of my fields .
you see that we have been as good as our word .
said holmes .
now of course that suggested at once that there must be a communication between the two rooms .
i was too shaken to go to bed again however so i dressed and as soon as it was daylight i slipped down got a at the crown inn which is opposite and drove to leatherhead from whence i have come on this morning with the one object of seeing you and asking your advice .
what will the duke say he murmured when he hears that one of the family has been subjected to such humiliation ?
it is all right .
sherlock holmes hailed a which was passing .
said rucastle showing me a slit between two planks .
and what did you learn from him ?
then i am your man .
it is introspective and i want to introspect .
it was in january that my poor father met his end and two years and eight months have elapsed since then .
i did not wonder at lestrade s opinion and yet i had so much faith in sherlock holmes insight that i could not lose hope as long as every fresh fact seemed to strengthen his conviction of young mccarthy s innocence .
one of the gold corners with three of the beryls in it was missing .
i was staggered sir .
holmes twisted himself round upon the sofa to get a fairer view of the man s excited face .
thank you .
the little which i had yet to learn of the case was told me by sherlock holmes as we travelled back next day .
they spoke of those hours of burrowing .
on my way i saw william crowder the as he had stated in his evidence but he is mistaken in thinking that i was following my father .
oh yes with the deepest interest .
then i must begin said he by binding you both to absolute secrecy for two years at the end of that time the matter will be of no importance .
i am sorry that i have not been able to bring your majesty s business to a more successful conclusion .
as to mary jane she is incorrigible and my wife has given her notice but there again i fail to see how you work it out .
the salesman chuckled grimly .
i met her several times became engaged to her and have now married her .
but i see that the enemy s preparations have gone so far that we can not risk the presence of a light .
i cried .
and yet said i smiling i can not quite hold myself absolved from the charge of sensationalism which has been urged against my records .
as governess ?
the crate upon which i sit contains napoleons packed between layers of lead foil .
you see watson he explained in the early hours of the morning as we sat over a glass of whisky and soda in baker street it was perfectly obvious from the first that the only possible object of this rather fantastic business of the advertisement of the league and the copying of the encyclopædia must be to get this not pawnbroker out of the way for a number of hours every day .
i know also that they were all three away from the ship last night .
oh indeed !
in the case of pondicherry seven weeks elapsed between the threat and its fulfilment in dundee it was only some three or four days .
absolutely none .
i have a caseful of cigarettes here which need smoking and the sofa is very much superior to the usual country hotel abomination .
the envelope was a very coarse one and was stamped with the gravesend postmark and with the date of that very day or rather of the day before for it was considerably after midnight .
this is my friend and colleague watson .
in the dim light of the lamp i saw him sitting there an old briar pipe between his lips his eyes fixed vacantly upon the corner of the ceiling the blue smoke curling up from him silent motionless with the light shining upon his aquiline features .
i marked the spot upon my own head .
recently he has been drinking hard and yesterday evening he was very drunk and when i came upstairs there was the key in the door .
it is probable that he will be away all day and that there would be nothing to disturb you .
he !
it was already dusk and the lamps were just being lighted as we paced up and down in front of briony lodge waiting for the coming of its occupant .
said my friend blowing blue rings into the air .
it must be recovered .
in a very short time a decrepit figure had emerged from the opium den and i was walking down the street with sherlock holmes .
now then what s the last entry ?
they are all as he remarks very much against the son .
as to my own case i am ready to give you any information which may assist you in forming an opinion .
oh certainly certainly answered baker with a sigh of relief .
even though he knew that arthur had discovered him he might still flatter himself that he was safe for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own family .
look there !
that s the list of the folk from whom i buy .
in a word i turned over a new leaf and did my best to make up for the past .
and your mother is alive ?
as he spoke the door opened and a young lady entered the room .
it is true that i have been generally successful .
my dear doctor this is a time for observation not for talk .
we have had the pleasure of making the doctor s acquaintance said holmes and in a few words he sketched out what had occurred .
was the remainder of the coronet at all injured ?
round one of his hands he had a handkerchief wrapped which was mottled all over with bloodstains .
you will i am sure forgive anything that may be wanting in our arrangements when you consider the blow which has come so suddenly upon us .
her features and figure were those of a woman of thirty but her hair was shot with premature grey and her expression was weary and haggard .
then you may entirely rely on me .
it was obvious to me that my companion s mind was now made up about the case although what his conclusions were was more than i could even dimly imagine .
neither you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you admitted him into your family circle .
i eliminated everything from it which could be the result of a disguise the whiskers the glasses the voice and i sent it to the firm with a request that they would inform me whether it answered to the description of any of their travellers .
i could do with much less than that holmes but you understand that as long as i live at home i don t wish to be a burden to them and so they have the use of the money just while i am staying with them .
the decline of his fortunes then ?
well a cheetah is just a big cat and yet a saucer of milk does not go very far in satisfying its wants i daresay .
but which of these is correct can only be determined by the fresh information which we shall no doubt find waiting for us .
and you were surprised to see him in swandam lane ?
but the money holmes the money !
experience said holmes laughing .
my geese !
most admirably .
we have touched on three english counties in our short drive starting in middlesex passing over an angle of surrey and ending in kent .
it was a considerable sum for people in their position and the loss of it would have made a serious difference .
i would take my goose now and in it i would carry my stone to kilburn .
you must put this piece of paper which you have shown us into the brass box which you have described .
i have no doubt that she loved you but there are women in whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves and i think that she must have been one .
there is a distinct element of danger .
have you an order to see him in prison ?
one of the highest in england .
it was not very long before my friend s prediction was fulfilled .
let you have five hundred morning .
what a tissue of mysteries and improbabilities the whole thing was !
it was neville clair s coat and not neville clair which lay uncovered as the tide receded .
i really have made no inquiries on the subject .
i believe that he is coming here said holmes rubbing his hands .
they might be useful to me as relics of my adventure said he but beyond that i can hardly see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going to be to me .
did he make no attempt to see you ?
as you observe this woman had plush upon her sleeves which is a most useful material for showing traces .
windibank draws my interest every quarter and pays it over to mother and i find that i can do pretty well with what i earn at typewriting .
indeed your example is an unfortunate one for your argument said holmes taking the paper and glancing his eye down it .
his .
how quiet and sweet and wholesome the garden looked in the moonlight and it could not be more than thirty feet down .
i should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely certain that i should be able in four days to reclaim it .
i can see him now with yellow pasty face drooping lids and pupils all huddled in a chair the wreck and ruin of a noble man .
behind there was nothing remarkable save that the passage window could be reached from the top of the .
no .
my god !
there was a little passage in front of me unpapered and uncarpeted which turned at a right angle at the farther end .
there is water in your eyes said he as he released me .
i only wonder i didn t fall down and do a faint right there before the altar .
male costume is nothing new to me .
ah said he i forgot that i had not seen you for some weeks .
it has become known that we have never had occasion to unpack the money and that it is still lying in our cellar .
never let yourself doubt upon that point .
i let you know then that i have caught him !
roylott then abandoned his attempts to establish himself in practice in london and took us to live with him in the old ancestral house at stoke moran .
i could manage it better if i were alone .
so they have .
you have really done very well indeed .
have you good authority for what you say ?
said i .
i understand that this gentleman your friend is a man of honour and discretion whom i may trust with a matter of the most extreme importance .
the summons was a brief and urgent one .
you are holmes the meddler .
see here sir !
i was frightened of the house of the man of the woman of the servants even of the child .
there isn t a cat in it for example ?
a considerable crime is in contemplation .
the embankment is not on the direct line to the station .
yes there was a ring .
it was a cold morning of the early spring and we sat after breakfast on either side of a cheery fire in the old room at baker street .
you must also put in a note to say that all the other papers were burned by your uncle and that this is the only one which remains .
that brought out the first signs of grief that he had shown .
she came in just now by the back door .
i trust that i am not more dense than my neighbours but i was always oppressed with a sense of my own stupidity in my dealings with sherlock holmes .
i called about that beggarman boone the one who was charged with being concerned in the disappearance of neville clair of lee .
here he is said he sitting down and flattening it out upon his knee .
then glancing quickly round he straightened himself out and burst into a hearty fit of laughter .
then it lengthened out until it became a yellow line and then without any warning or sound a gash seemed to open and a hand appeared a white almost womanly hand which felt about in the centre of the little area of light .
i glanced at the books upon the table and in spite of my ignorance of german i could see that two of them were treatises on science the others being volumes of poetry .
he bowed and turning away without observing the hand which the king had stretched out to him he set off in my company for his chambers .
when he was young he became a member of an aristocratic club and there having charming manners he was soon the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive habits .
but it was essential that they should use it soon as it might be discovered or the bullion might be removed .
it appeared in all the papers about a year ago .
this may interest you lestrade he remarked holding it out .
i heard from major prendergast how you saved him in the tankerville club scandal .
awake watson ?
it gave even my hardened nerves a shudder to look at it .
why that ?
did you see miss doran on the day before the wedding ?
in the case of the darlington substitution scandal it was of use to me and also in the arnsworth castle business .
i wired to gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago and as the wind is easterly i have no doubt that she is now past the goodwins and not very far from the isle of wight .
that is excellent .
fritz !
how you startled me kate !
you are engaged said i perhaps i interrupt you .
he chuckled to himself as he spoke his eyes twinkled and he seemed a different man to the sombre thinker of the previous night .
an ordinary man could not do it .
you think that he is dead ?
as to clair s assertion that she had actually seen her husband at the window he declared that she must have been either mad or dreaming .
perhaps i have trained myself to see what others overlook .
they have been turning out by the thousand .
but holmes shook his head gravely .
muttered holmes pulling at the rope .
are you hungry watson ?
you have been very kind said he but i must have this money or else i can never show my face inside the club again .
i thought there might be some weapon or other trace .
has only one male visitor but a good deal of him .
and then i think that what he foresaw happened .
what becomes then of these nocturnal whistles and what of the very peculiar words of the dying woman ?
you have heard me remark that the strangest and most unique things are very often connected not with the larger but with the smaller crimes and occasionally indeed where there is room for doubt whether any positive crime has been committed .
there is a friend of mine here isa whitney and i wish to speak with him .
well it is a little awkward for i have a business already said i .
he cried .
at the same instant i saw him raise his hand and at the signal i tossed my rocket into the room with a cry of fire !
it is unfortunately more than possible it is certain .
this is a very deep business he said at last .
after all watson said holmes reaching up his hand for his clay pipe i am not retained by the police to supply their deficiencies .
it was an hour s good drive .
there must have been several in it and they must have been men of resource and determination .
come in !
there is a train from paddington which would bring you there at about .
you see this other page in red ink ?
i should not dream of trying said he .
it is one of these cases but hullo here is lestrade !
colonel lysander stark had said that it was only seven miles but i should think from the rate that we seemed to go and from the time that we took that it must have been nearer twelve .
i have almost every link in my hands and all the proofs which i could possibly need so there is little which you need tell me .
but without his collar or tie .
my stepdaughter has been here .
then it flashed through my mind that the pain of my death would depend very much upon the position in which i met it .
very likely not .
and your address had been given me .
at the time of the war he fought in jackson s army and afterwards under hood where he rose to be a colonel .
i hate to meet her watson when i have no news of her husband .
what then ?
large on the right side well furnished with long windows almost to the floor and those preposterous english window fasteners which a child could open .
you then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks .
you see no difficulty heh ?
with these i journeyed down to streatham and saw that they exactly fitted the tracks .
she left this morning with her husband by the train from charing cross for the continent .
it was not a photograph but an ivory miniature and the artist had brought out the full effect of the lustrous black hair the large dark eyes and the exquisite mouth .
now watson said holmes as a tall dashed up through the gloom throwing out two golden tunnels of yellow light from its side lanterns .
it must be in her own house .
what are you doing there ?
i braved him to do his worst .
i have felt like one of those poor rabbits when the snake is writhing towards it .
i was at once convinced from what you had told me that the latter was your son .
my sister had told me some weeks before that i might have the pick of her geese for a christmas present and i knew that she was always as good as her word .
at eight in the morning .
by all means .
it saved me from ennui he answered yawning .
those i think were the main points of my analysis .
so perfect was the organisation of the society and so systematic its methods that there is hardly a case upon record where any man succeeded in braving it with impunity or in which any of its outrages were traced home to the perpetrators .
by profession i am a hydraulic engineer and i have had considerable experience of my work during the seven years that i was apprenticed to venner matheson the firm of greenwich .
now then cocksure said the salesman i thought that i was out of geese but before i finish you ll find that there is still one left in my shop .
my messenger reached you then ?
pray lie down there and make yourself absolutely at home .
then when he had left you rifled the raised the alarm and had this unfortunate man arrested .
as i ran down the passage my sister s door was unlocked and revolved slowly upon its hinges .
i shall be true to hosmer .
twice since i have been with them he has been quite drunk and yet rucastle seemed to take no notice of it .
i have no doubt at all that he had left it there .
we both sat in silence for some little time after listening to this extraordinary narrative .
yes and he seemed to think with me that something had happened and that i should hear of hosmer again .
i have done nothing actionable from the first but as long as you keep that door locked you lay yourself open to an action for assault and illegal constraint .
i have given you the chance .
the a week was a lure which must draw him and what was it to them who were playing for thousands ?
it has been considered artistic .
still it might be worth while to call holmes attention to it .
the cellar !
there it is in a nutshell .
in a few minutes i had written my note paid whitney s bill led him out to the cab and seen him driven through the darkness .
the man married a woman very much older than himself for her money said he and he enjoyed the use of the money of the daughter as long as she lived with them .
i am a dangerous man to fall foul of !
i had something else to think of .
mary and i stay at home .
he seems a very amiable person said holmes laughing .
but then when i found how i had betrayed myself i began to think .
he was a very shy man holmes .
how did you trace it then ?
but you shall have it all just as it occurred .
it s about isa .
do not think of revenge or anything of the sort at present .
the dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of the struggle .
cried the king of bohemia when we had all three read this epistle .
very strange !
i am a widower and have an only son arthur .
there were no carpets and no signs of any furniture above the ground floor while the plaster was peeling off the walls and the damp was breaking through in green unhealthy blotches .
his rusty black was buttoned right up in front with the collar turned up and his lank wrists protruded from his sleeves without a sign of cuff or shirt .
who knows ?
it s only four hours a day and i should not think of leaving said i .
very naturally .
she is a very pretty girl and has attracted admirers who have occasionally hung about the place .
here it is that this creature takes his daily seat with his tiny stock of matches on his lap and as he is a piteous spectacle a small rain of charity descends into the greasy leather cap which lies upon the pavement beside him .
it was one bird i imagine in which you were interested white with a black bar across the tail .
i will read it to you and in return you must turn over these papers and let me have whatever bears upon the matter .
why all the morning he was saying to me that whatever happened i was to be true and that even if something quite unforeseen occurred to separate us i was always to remember that i was pledged to him and that he would claim his pledge sooner or later .
you will excuse me for not waiting for you said he i have i foresee a very busy day before me in looking into this case of young openshaw s .
you are right he cried i am the king .
but then it occurred to me that there might be a search in the room and that the clothes might betray me .
when i came down rucastle met me here and drove me in his to the copper beeches .
any injury to it would be almost as serious as its complete loss for there are no beryls in the world to match these and it would be impossible to replace them .
you are certainly joking holmes .
last monday i had finished for the day and was dressing in my room above the opium den when i looked out of my window and saw to my horror and astonishment that my wife was standing in the street with her eyes fixed full upon me .
still of course if you would like to draw out of the business there is plenty of time to do so .
that is clear and concise .
he went alone at his own request for he explained that any unnecessary footmarks might make his task more difficult .
outside the wind still screamed and the rain splashed and pattered against the windows .
we both thought the best resource was flight when pursued by so formidable an antagonist so you will find the nest empty when you call .
holmes went to the bureau first and looked hard at the lock .
you may say before this gentleman anything which you may say to me .
our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh .
it hadn t pulled up before she shot out of the hall door and into it .
he doesn t look a credit to the bow street cells does he ?
because it would spare your majesty all fear of future annoyance .
give her her head .
i fainted when it was done and i think that i must have been senseless for a long time .
miss roylott you have not .
yes there are steps on the landing .
i should prefer to have clearer proofs before i speak .
that is possible .
as i drove home to my house in kensington i thought over it all from the extraordinary story of the copier of the encyclopædia down to the visit to square and the ominous words with which he had parted from me .
and your address ?
ah yes i shall keep the stone .
it is certain therefore that my sister was quite alone when she met her end .
you have not observed .
there is no lane so vile that the scream of a tortured child or the thud of a drunkard s blow does not beget sympathy and indignation among the neighbours and then the whole machinery of justice is ever so close that a word of complaint can set it going and there is but a step between the crime and the dock .
this is indeed important said he .
opening it hurriedly out there jumped five little dried orange pips which pattered down upon his plate .
i am a practical man he said and i really can not undertake to go about the country looking for a gentleman with a game leg .
yes .
you know me too well to think that i am boasting when i say that i shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means which he is quite incapable of employing or even of understanding .
i had begun to take comfort too soon however yesterday morning the blow fell in the very shape in which it had come upon my father .
i have not seen a paper for some days .
quite so !
she knows that the king is capable of having her waylaid and searched .
i was conscious of a dull pain my grip loosened and i fell into the garden below .
the prisoner lay with his face towards us in a very deep sleep breathing slowly and heavily .
that would be unnecessary .
precisely .
all well .
he took up a small saucer of milk which stood on the top of it .
their reasons for their conduct .
and then suddenly in the silence i heard a sound which sent my heart into my mouth .
yes from horsham .
but there is if you will excuse my saying so something just a little funny about it .
the adventure of the copper beeches to the man who loves art for its own sake remarked sherlock holmes tossing aside the advertisement sheet of the daily telegraph it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived .
you are fatigued with your haste .
i went home to square and i took the advice of my assistant .
is an excellent argument with gentlemen who can twist steel pokers into knots .
i then took my gun and strolled out in the direction of the boscombe pool with the intention of visiting the rabbit warren which is upon the other side .
here we are jack says he touching me on the arm we ll be as good as a family to you .
precisely .
i rely upon you not only to be discreet and to refrain from all gossip upon the matter but above all to preserve this coronet with every possible precaution because i need not say that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to befall it .
i think that i heard a ring said holmes .
you say so !
said he this is treasure trove indeed .
it is possible that our inquiry may but confirm his guilt but in any case we have a line of investigation which has been missed by the police and which a singular chance has placed in our hands .
we got away with the gold became wealthy men and made our way over to england without being suspected .
and that was how a great scandal threatened to affect the kingdom of bohemia and how the best plans of sherlock holmes were beaten by a woman s wit .
to do nothing whatever .
that is well .
what !
and have you any on hand just now ?
he disappeared into his bedroom and returned in a few minutes in the character of an amiable and nonconformist clergyman .
in the present instance i am forced to admit that the facts are to the best of my belief unique .
i staggered to my feet and ran with her along the corridor and down a winding stair .
but you will find that all i say is really to the point .
then you won t forgive me ?
it is not yet nine .
none .
can you suggest no explanation ?
there he was to be found she was sure of it at the bar of gold in upper swandam lane .
how long did she speak to this alice ?
they are never sold upon hats .
it is of course a trifle but there is nothing so important as trifles .
james mccarthy the only son of the deceased was then called and gave evidence as follows i had been away from home for three days at bristol and had only just returned upon the morning of last monday the .
yes it must be so .
it s not a very large affair and of late years it has not done more than just give me a living .
you are sure that she has not sent it yet ?
with a rending tearing sound one of the broad white stones turned over upon its side and left a square gaping hole through which streamed the light of a lantern .
you have really got it !
the case would then never go into court at all .
hatherley ?
you have no chance at all .
she is a sunbeam in my house sweet loving beautiful a wonderful manager and housekeeper yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a woman could be .
when i hear you give your reasons i remarked the thing always appears to me to be so ridiculously simple that i could easily do it myself though at each successive instance of your reasoning i am baffled until you explain your process .
there is a at the back of that building near the corner of paul s wharf which could tell some strange tales of what has passed through it upon the moonless nights .
i am so frightened about him !
you must get home instantly and act .
there s two of us me and my son and you can have the keeping of us .
it is true that you have missed everything of importance but you have hit upon the method and you have a quick eye for colour .
oh certainly if it would give you any pleasure .
god help me !
i turned the key gently in the lock opened the door and slipped through .
i was only crown prince then .
he was off in one of those hysterical outbursts which come upon a strong nature when some great crisis is over and gone .
large masses of nickel and of tin were discovered stored in an but no coins were to be found which may have explained the presence of those bulky boxes which have been already referred to .
pray give me the results of your newspaper selections .
between your brandy and your bandage i feel a new man .
henry baker can have the same by applying at this evening at baker street .
i have driven down to tell you so .
i have no wish to commit you to anything without your having it all laid before you .
your salary with me madam would commence at a year .
said jabez wilson .
just as he finished however we drove through two scattered villages where a few lights still glimmered in the windows .
stop it !
but not more so than i to find you .
this went on day after day holmes and on saturday the manager came in and planked down four golden sovereigns for my week s work .
i see .
i started from home before six reached leatherhead at twenty past and came in by the first train to waterloo .
he held out his snuffbox of old gold with a great amethyst in the centre of the lid .
this observation of his had the natural effect of removing any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the coroner s jury .
it is a little cold for the time of the year said holmes .
on the other hand the face and manner of my patron had made an unpleasant impression upon me and i could not think that his explanation of the fuller was sufficient to explain the necessity for my coming at midnight and his extreme anxiety lest i should tell anyone of my errand .
there is something distinctly novel about some of the features .
it is the vilest on the whole riverside and i fear that neville clair has entered it never to leave it more .
no your secret lies in london .
in this i was asked to sit and then rucastle walking up and down on the other side of the room began to tell me a series of the funniest stories that i have ever listened to .
but you may imagine what i felt when just as i came to the altar rails i glanced back and saw frank standing and looking at me out of the first pew .
your task is confined to that .
eh ?
you ll know all about it presently .
here ?
it was a poky little place where four lines of dingy brick houses looked out into a small enclosure where a lawn of weedy grass and a few clumps of faded laurel bushes made a hard fight against a and uncongenial atmosphere .
he walked up to the sideboard and tearing a piece from the loaf he devoured it voraciously washing it down with a long draught of water .
ha !
i shall have to tell my tale to the police but between ourselves if it were not for the convincing evidence of this wound of mine i should be surprised if they believed my statement for it is a very extraordinary one and i have not much in the way of proof with which to back it up and even if they believe me the clues which i can give them are so vague that it is a question whether justice will be done .
she was about to renew her entreaties when a door slammed overhead and the sound of several footsteps was heard upon the stairs .
he can t lie in the street .
i cried pull yourself together !
on entering his room i found holmes in animated conversation with two men one of whom i recognised as peter jones the official police agent while the other was a long thin man with a very shiny hat and oppressively respectable .
she repeated standing upon the rug and looking keenly down at him as he leaned back in a .
tell me all about it said i .
this stone is not yet twenty years old .
if on the other hand i am to do it in the name of the firm then in justice to my partner i must insist that even in your case every businesslike precaution should be taken .
our visitor bore every mark of being an average commonplace british tradesman obese pompous and slow .
he is older than arthur a man of the world to his one who had been everywhere seen everything a brilliant talker and a man of great personal beauty .
i rose and making my excuses escaped from the house .
he burst into convulsive sobbing with his face buried in his hands .
we have in our police reports realism pushed to its extreme limits and yet the result is it must be confessed neither fascinating nor artistic .
she stood smiling holding up a little slip of paper in the air .
the gentleman i describe .
some of the general public were present then ?
james ryder at the hotel gave his evidence to the effect that he had shown horner up to the of the countess of morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder the second bar of the grate which was loose .
it is there that i shall seek it .
if my hair would only change colour here s a nice little crib all ready for me to step into .
on the contrary watson you can see everything .
the prisoner turned with the reckless air of a man who abandons himself to his destiny .
you bring oakshott here and i ll answer her but what have you to do with it ?
it was very sweet of you to come .
then what clue could you have as to his identity ?
but he is right .
quite so .
in which sir ?
it ran in this way mr .
with the result of driving it through the ventilator .
it is just possible that i may have to come over here again before evening .
you shall learn nothing from me said he with a passion such as i should not have thought was in his nature .
oh in the globe star pall mall james s gazette evening news standard echo and any others that occur to you .
i have a confused memory too of having been lifted and conveyed somewhere .
but what in the name of the devil !
and pray what did you hope to arrive at through this ?
on the inside of the cover was a paper label with the initials of repeated upon it and letters memoranda receipts and a register written beneath .
let me explain .
i clambered out upon the sill but i hesitated to jump until i should have heard what passed between my saviour and the ruffian who pursued me .
do you think that i would respond to such a trifle and yet be ignorant of his death ?
it will very much depend upon the results of my first inquiries .
as he spoke he drew the swiftly from the dead man s lap and throwing the noose round the reptile s neck he drew it from its horrid perch and carrying it at arm s length threw it into the iron safe which he closed upon it .
there is one other thing you owe holder said sherlock holmes rather sternly .
did you become engaged then ?
when did she vanish then ?
when i went down there i found him talking with his son so i smoked a cigar and waited behind a tree until he should be alone .
and now doctor we ve done our work so it s time we had some play .
it is a perfectly overpowering impulse and i have more than once taken advantage of it .
so far i had got when we went to visit the scene of action .
this is where we shall find them .
i never have .
irene s photograph !
sherlock holmes i believe ?
one of the largest stalls bore the name of breckinridge upon it and the proprietor a man with a sharp face and trim was helping a boy to put up the shutters .
i suppose that you could not possibly whistle yourself in your sleep ?
he started me off upon the letter a and then he left me but he would drop in from time to time to see that all was right with me .
the evidence against him was so strong that the case has been referred to the assizes .
one day my editor wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis and i volunteered to supply them .
i rapidly threw on my clothes and was ready in a few minutes to accompany my friend down to the .
the lamps had been lit but the blinds had not been drawn so that i could see holmes as he lay upon the couch .
that will be next monday .
then after we had sat down for ten minutes or so she rose hurriedly muttered some words of apology and left the room .
well then said he my real name is james ryder .
now what do you think would happen if i did break it holder ?
where does that bell communicate with ?
you are in my power .
i had remained indoors all day for the weather had taken a sudden turn to rain with high autumnal winds and the jezail bullet which i had brought back in one of my limbs as a relic of my afghan campaign throbbed with dull persistence .
yes but with my back towards it .
she dropped her thick black veil over her face and glided from the room .
sold to windigate of the alpha at .
and then suddenly the whole business came to an end .
i threw myself screaming against the door and dragged with my nails at the lock .
suddenly however he started tapped me on the shoulder and pointed over the meadows .
my friend rose now and paced up and down the room his hands in his pockets and an expression of the most profound gravity upon his face .
it s merely taking your money for i know that i am right .
besides it is the season of forgiveness .
i suppose that i must have rushed past him into my room .
asked holmes .
you have seen inside then ?
but his wife you said that she had ceased to love him .
the swing of his nature took him from extreme languor to devouring energy and as i knew well he was never so truly formidable as when for days on end he had been lounging in his armchair amid his improvisations and his editions .
i think perhaps it is almost time that i prepare for the new role i have to play .
the culprit is mr .
she pulled a little handkerchief out of her muff and began to sob heavily into it .
here he comes .
it is no wonder that he and his family have some of the more implacable spirits upon their track .
it was a labyrinth of an old house with corridors passages narrow winding staircases and little low doors the thresholds of which were hollowed out by the generations who had crossed them .
i did as i was told and at the same instant rucastle drew down the blind .
he waved his hands frantically to her and then vanished from the window so suddenly that it seemed to her that he had been plucked back by some irresistible force from behind .
i think that i had better go holmes .
it is the first saturday night for years that i have not had my rubber .
oh any old key will fit that bureau .
it read in this fashion the league is dissolved .
let the weight of the matter rest upon me now and do not let your mind dwell upon it further .
i can hardly see how the lady could have acted otherwise though her abrupt method of doing it was undoubtedly to be regretted .
they have been identified as her clothes and it seemed to me that if the clothes were there the body would not be far off .
two hansoms were standing at the door and as i entered the passage i heard the sound of voices from above .
i beg that you will not touch me with your filthy hands remarked our prisoner as the handcuffs clattered upon his wrists .
petrified with astonishment the lad slipped on some clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this strange affair .
he had risen out of his dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem .
oh do not waste the time but come !
i could distinguish the outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming in .
when he told us of a man in a pew of the change in the bride s manner of so transparent a device for obtaining a note as the dropping of a bouquet of her resort to her confidential maid and of her very significant allusion to which in miners parlance means taking possession of that which another person has a prior claim to the whole situation became absolutely clear .
i will miss turner .
which was a usual signal between my father and myself .
with a stout bearing therefore though her manner had shaken me more than i cared to confess i still shook my head and declared my intention of remaining where i was .
now for the facts .
i entered my and found a gentleman seated by the table .
i only looked in as i passed said he .
the more featureless and commonplace a crime is the more difficult it is to bring it home .
two years ago having served my time and having also come into a fair sum of money through my poor father s death i determined to start in business for myself and took professional chambers in victoria street .
there is mortimer s the tobacconist the little newspaper shop the coburg branch of the city and suburban bank the vegetarian restaurant and mcfarlane s depot .
it is the more strange since we know that turner himself was averse to the idea .
your duties as far as the child is concerned are very light .
i shall try not to miss anything of importance .
your majesty had not spoken before i was aware that i was addressing wilhelm gottsreich sigismond von ormstein grand duke of and hereditary king of bohemia .
i rushed across the bedroom flung open the window and looked out .
as to miss violet hunter my friend holmes rather to my disappointment manifested no further interest in her when once she had ceased to be the centre of one of his problems and she is now the head of a private school at walsall where i believe that she has met with considerable success .
still of course in america they look upon these things in a different way .
were they all fastened this morning ?
well it is just as i have been telling you sherlock holmes said jabez wilson mopping his forehead i have a small pawnbroker s business at coburg square near the city .
i looked at it before said lestrade .
we travelled by the underground as far as aldersgate and a short walk took us to square the scene of the singular story which we had listened to in the morning .
windibank gave a violent start and dropped his gloves .
both could be saved if i could but silence that foul tongue .
a twitch brought away the tangled red hair and there sitting up in his bed was a pale man and rubbing his eyes and staring about him with sleepy bewilderment .
rucastle however who has evidently no sense of humour never so much as smiled but sat with her hands in her lap and a sad anxious look upon her face .
filled with the most maddening doubts and fears she rushed down the lane and by rare met in fresno street a number of constables with an inspector all on their way to their beat .
she wrote me dreadful letters when she heard that i was about to be married and to tell the truth the reason why i had the marriage celebrated so quietly was that i feared lest there might be a scandal in the church .
but i saw nothing .
i confess that i can not recall any case within my experience which looked at the first glance so simple and yet which presented such difficulties .
your experience has been a most entertaining one remarked holmes as his client paused and refreshed his memory with a huge pinch of snuff .
what could he have done against a man in the prime of life ?
still it did not go for very much for the older man might have turned his back before the blow fell .
who by ?
we passed across holborn down endell street and so through a zigzag of slums to covent garden market .
he was not a popular man being somewhat cold and forbidding in his manners but he had as far as i know no active enemies .
it was a magnificent specimen of the jeweller s art and the stones were the finest that i have ever seen .
and for present expenses ?
in the latter as may be remembered sherlock holmes was able by winding up the dead man s watch to prove that it had been wound up two hours before and that therefore the deceased had gone to bed within that time a deduction which was of the greatest importance in clearing up the case .
vii .
this looks like one of those unwelcome social summonses which call upon a man either to be bored or to lie .
do i make myself plain ?
how he did it i could not imagine but he pushed and pulled and butted until he got me through the crowd and right up to the steps which led to the office .
there is a little nut for you to crack master holmes .
when i had cleared it all up i had an interview with him and finding that he would not tell me the story i told it to him on which he had to confess that i was right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite clear to me .
the husband was a teetotaler there was no other woman and the conduct complained of was that he had drifted into the habit of winding up every meal by taking out his false teeth and hurling them at his wife which you will allow is not an action likely to occur to the imagination of the average .
he shot one of his suspicious looks at me .
look at the band of ribbed silk and the excellent lining .
it is a nice household he murmured .
i am delighted to see you said she pressing my hand warmly .
oh i am so frightened !
i asked smiling .
i was shocked by the change which had come over him for his face which was naturally of a broad and massive mould was now pinched and fallen in while his hair seemed to me at least a shade whiter .
i can not say that i have .
from the first two facts were very obvious to me the one that the lady had been quite willing to undergo the wedding ceremony the other that she had repented of it within a few minutes of returning home .
but said i there would be millions of men who would apply .
about a month then .
we had no feeling of security unless our doors were locked .
incredible imbecility !
be one of them and you will know all that there is to know .
it was the most preposterous position in which i ever found myself in my life and it was the thought of it that started me laughing just now .
to me with my nerves worked up to a pitch of expectancy there was something depressing and subduing in the sudden gloom and in the cold dank air of the vault .
no i had a dozen .
the adventure of the blue carbuncle i had called upon my friend sherlock holmes upon the second morning after christmas with the intention of wishing him the compliments of the season .
i am afraid that it will take wiser heads than yours or mine he remarked and bowing in a stately manner he departed .
what have you done ?
he shrieked .
have you her photograph ?
and how did you find out ?
you heard nothing yourself last night ?
then if it was removed it was while you were within a dozen yards of it ?
but now thanks to this lucky chance i think that we have got them right enough .
he sprang from his chair and paced about the room in uncontrollable agitation with a flush upon his sallow cheeks and a nervous clasping and unclasping of his long thin hands .
oh no not now .
turn over those papers and arrange the extracts in their order of time while i take a glance as to who our client is .
my own seal .
kill it and take it with you .
i think that i see my way to clearing james mccarthy said holmes .
it was the same next week and the same the week after .
now sherlock holmes said the lady as we entered a upon the table of which a cold supper had been laid out i should very much like to ask you one or two plain questions to which i beg that you will give a plain answer .
well to tell the truth i saw then the first signs that i had ever seen that her temper was just a little sharp .
i have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner .
i heard his wife tell rucastle that she could do nothing with him .
you know my method .
clair has most kindly put two rooms at my disposal and you may rest assured that she will have nothing but a welcome for my friend and colleague .
that is the only drawback which we have found to her but we believe her to be a thoroughly good girl in every way .
evidently said i mr .
well there is at least a curious coincidence of dates .
oh you may carry that feeling away with you .
as he spoke there was the sharp sound of horses hoofs and grating wheels against the curb followed by a sharp pull at the bell .
here it is !
what on earth does this mean ?
suppose that this man boone had thrust neville clair through the window there is no human eye which could have seen the deed .
i dashed some brandy into the water and the colour began to come back to his bloodless cheeks .
holmes stooped to the moistened his sponge and then rubbed it twice vigorously across and down the prisoner s face .
if you but make such reparation as is in your power by telling us where the beryls are all shall be forgiven and forgotten .
from comparing notes afterwards it was but an hour and a quarter yet it appeared to me that the night must have almost gone and the dawn be breaking above us .
very few governesses in england are getting a year .
he would show me how to turn the stone into money .
as far as you are personally concerned remarked holmes i do not see that you have any grievance against this extraordinary league .
that was always the way .
i knew my man however and i clapped a pistol to his head before he could strike .
the marks are perfectly fresh .
pray do so .
i see .
i married too and though my wife died young she left me my dear little alice .
if we were to come to stoke moran would it be possible for us to see over these rooms without the knowledge of your stepfather ?
yes that is the crown .
what would he do then ?
don t wait up for me in case i should be late .
john clay the murderer thief smasher and forger .
iv .
thank you .
holder said he i have been informed that you are in the habit of advancing money .
here is the account between nine and ten last night cook of the h division on duty near waterloo bridge heard a cry for help and a splash in the water .
for the rest there was nothing of much importance in the attic save a great many scattered papers and bearing upon my uncle s life in america .
apply in person on monday at eleven o clock to duncan ross at the offices of the league pope s court fleet street .
it is not too much to say that once or twice as in that business of the sholto murder and the agra treasure he has been more nearly correct than the official force .
i trust that we are not too late said he .
it was a chestnut .
he asked .
yes .
we can not spare time even to discuss what you have told me .
he is a godfrey norton of the inner temple .
but you do not yourself look upon this as likely ?
if i could only bring you down all would be well .
from all i hear it is splendid pay and very little to do .
lord robert simon announced our throwing open the door .
merryweather is the chairman of directors and he will explain to you that there are reasons why the more daring criminals of london should take a considerable interest in this cellar at present .
lestrade rose in his triumph and bent his head to look .
he ran up and down sometimes losing sometimes finding the track until we were well within the edge of the wood and under the shadow of a great beech the largest tree in the neighbourhood .
